Additional Comments:
Clealy exceeding requirements	
Best candidate for ..
Brief this Marine as a 5/6
Absolute subject matter expert, sought out by x for x
Operating at the next rank,  break out from peer group
Do not only his job but mine as well

8
7	4	
6	11	
5	37
4 	70
3	37
2	11
1	5

Sgt Flores (4)
Concur with the RS.  Proficient, thorough, and dedicated, the MRO has contributed to the success of Detachment B during two major training exercises.  The MRO has diligently contributed to mission accomplishment up until his last day on Active Duty by mentoring and training the junior Marines in his shop.  The MRO has a plan in place to move on after the Marine Corps.  I would choose this Marine for my team any time.  I would not think twice about reenlisting this Marine if he comes back to the Marine Corps in the future.
This report is not observed due to insufficient observation time.
Sgt Martinez (3)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has earned the trust of his subordinates by his very effective leadership and mentoring capabilities.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeants Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Villanueva (4)
Concur with the RS.  Technically proficient and physically fit, the MRO is an aggressive leader of Marines who embodies the whole Marine concept.  The MRO seeks every opportunity to improve himself and his subordinates through MOS training and leading MCMAP training.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeants Course.  The MRO would also be very competitive for a Special Duty Assignment such as a Drill Instructor.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Rushing (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has shown outstanding initiative and dedication serving as the MIMMS and GCSS NCO for the Wire Platoon.   His attention to detail and diligence has ensured the mission readiness of the Wire Platoon’s equipment during a period of high personnel turnover in the Detachment.  Always the first to volunteer for tasks and training opportunities, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission with zeal and take care of the Marines entrusted to him.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Kirk(4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a dependable, firm, fair, and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to his subordinates and peers in the Wire Platoon.  He served as one of the key leaders of the Remain Behind Element during WTI, ensuring the readiness of the Marines and equipment left in the rear while preparing them for the next exercise.  Very physically fit.  The MRO possesses all of the qualities needed to be successful at MARSOC.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Presley (2)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.   Very experienced, the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment.  
Sgt Rainey (3) 
Concur with the RS.  Detail oriented and dedicated, the MRO has worked hard to ensure the success of the Data Platoon while serving as the MIMMS and GCSS NCO.  Her efforts were critical in ensuring the readiness of the tactical data networking equipment during back to back field exercises.  The MRO is an excellent candidate for Sergeants Course and the Data NCO Course.  The MRO also possesses the qualities to be successful at a Special Duty Assignment such as recruiting.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Castro (5)
Concur with the RS.  A consummate professional, the MRO has been integral to the success of the Detachment, both by his own proficiency, leadership ability and the work that he put into developing the junior Marines under his charge. Tremendous work ethic, the MRO is the first to arrive and the last to leave. Physically fit.  The MRO is an excellent candidate for a Special Duty Assignment such as Drill Instructor.  The MRO is also an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  A must promote, retain at all costs.  
Sgt Ovalle (2)
Concur with the RS.  FITREP is adverse due to lack of progress while on BCP during this reporting period. A highly effective and proficient radio operator and able instructor, he has continued to diligently develop the junior Marines in the platoon.  The MRO has ably filled many key independent billets during field operations and training.  The potential exists within this NCO to recover from his BCP assignment.
Sgt Harbaugh (1)
Concur with RS. FITREP is adverse due to lack of progress while on BCP during this reporting period.  The MRO accomplishes assigned tasks and contributes to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B.  Do not consider for promotion until the MRO is within height and weight standards.
Sgt Martin (1)
Concur with RS.  FITREP is adverse due to the MRO’s reduction to the rank of Cpl during Squadron NJP.  The MRO is a diligent and detail oriented Marine who had a lapse in her judgment and decision making ability.  The qualities displayed by the MRO during the rest of the reporting period give me cause to believe that she will learn from her mistake and become a better NCO from the lessons that she has learned.  The MRO possesses the fortitude, foundation, and drive to fully recover from the NJP and continue to be a productive NCO in the Detachment.
Sgt Napoles –Flores (3)
Concur with RS.  An eager, enthusiastic NCO, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his reliability and attention to detail.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Crank (4) 
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a force multiplier for the transmissions platoon.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  In addition to his own skill sets and leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines. Physically fit.  A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Mariano (3)
Concur with the RS.  Very technically proficient and resourceful, the MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments.  During WTI the MRO developed creative solutions to ensure the mission readiness of his satellite communications terminal and that communication support was always provided on time.  The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines. Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Mussman (3) (26 /40 for RS, could move up – maybe not judgement?)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a highly intelligent and resourceful NCO who has benefited transmissions platoon with his work ethic and attention to detail.  The MRO’s efforts were critical to the platoon’s success during internal Squadron maintenance inspections.  The MRO has demonstrated a good deal of initiative and leadership in his billets.  Involved, proficient, and dedicated to mission accomplishment, the MRO has a bright future.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Arvizu (6)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the top Sergeants in the Detachment and among the top 5 whom I have ever observed.  A consummate professional, the MRO leads from the front physically, mentally, and morally.  An outstanding leader of Marines, technically proficient, and extraordinarily resourceful, the MRO has molded his section to become the top performing section in Detachment B.  This Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt now!  A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Calhoun (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is among the top Sergeants in Detachment B.  A dedicated mentor and ardent leader, the MRO takes a personal interest in the development of both his peers and his subordinates.  Proficient, intelligent, and thorough the MRO works tirelessly to balance the demands of annual, leadership, and MOS training, ensuring that the Marines of Transmissions Platoon are prepared to excel in any capacity. A force multiplier for any commander.  A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for MECEP and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Hollins (3)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his dependability and attention to detail.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Laredo (4)
Concur with the RS.  A mature and dependable leader, the MRO can be entrusted with independent assignments.  Resourceful and proficient, the MRO earned praise from many of the units that his team supported during WTI.   The MRO is often trusted by the platoon leadership to supervise complex tasks because of his thoroughness and reliability.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Martinez (4)
Concur with the RS.  An effective and able instructor, the MRO has greatly contributed to the increase in proficiency and familiarity of many of his peers and his junior Marines with the MRC-142C radio system. Intelligent, thorough, and dependable, the MRO has quickly established the reputation of one of the go to Marines in the platoon.  A dedicated mentor, he has contributed to the growth and leadership development of the Marines under his charge.  Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for MECEP and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Clark (3)
Concur with the RS.  Diligent and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of her Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, working with the other Training NCOs to ensure that all annual training requirements for the Marines of Transmissions Platoon were being met.  The MRO has also been an excellent mentor for some of the junior Marines in the platoon.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Moret (4) 
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a highly talented and capable leader of Marines.  Well rounded, the MRO sets the example in every aspect, from MOS proficiency, knowledge of drill and ceremonies, to leadership and mentorship.  Not content to just make a difference during the workday, the MRO contributes his time and talent to serving on the Squadron’s Color Guard as well as flag and tackle football leagues.  Highly regarded by his seniors, subordinates, and peers.  Physically fit.  A must for retention.   Promote with peers and continue to challenge this outstanding Marine!
Sgt Ortega (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is the complete package.  An aggressive, independent, forward thinking leader of Marines.   One of the most mature Sgts in the Detachment. The MRO possesses a deep and broad understanding of her MOS, and is often found at the point of friction, providing direction and order to her peers and junior Marines.  Physically fit.  A must promote; this Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt.  The MRO is an excellent candidate for Drill Instructor Duty as well as for acceptance into the Warrant Officer Program.  Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Sgt Perez-Lopez (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a force multiplier for Detachment B.  An outstanding communications planner, his grasp of the capabilities and limitations of communications equipment is far beyond his peers.  The MRO has been the driving force behind 2 training exercises involving his platoon and the rest of the Detachment.  Hungry for more responsibility, the MRO is constantly looking for ways to improve himself and his Marines.  A must promote at the first opportunity.  This Marine is an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Sgt Richard (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the most proficient satellite communications terminal operators in the Detachment.  A master at troubleshooting complex communication problems.  Extraordinarily broad knowledge base, the MRO is one of the most intelligent and resourceful instructors in the Detachment.  The MRO has also been an excellent mentor for some of the junior Marines in the platoon.  This Marine is an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer program.  
Sgt Rocha (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the most proficient single channel radio operators in the Detachment.  A highly adaptable and versatile NCO, the MRO is counted on to fill the gaps in Transmission Platoon and help out his peers and subordinates alike.  Professional and engaged, the MRO can always be found at the point of friction, taking charge of the situation.  An excellent mentor for many of the junior Marines in the platoon.   The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty.   Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Jonathan Rodriguez (3)
Concur with the RS.  Consistent, solid, and thorough, the MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Transmission Platoon both in garrison and while in the field.  Flexible and mature, the MRO is often sought out by peers for assistance.  The MRO’s hard work, proficiency, and troubleshooting abilities were critical to the success of the Detachment during WTI.  Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Tolley (3)
Concur with the RS.   A solid and professional multichannel radio operator, the MRO takes a great deal of pride in his proficiency and ability to accomplish the mission.  A diligent instructor, the MRO has worked to develop the troubleshooting skills of the junior Marines.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Transmissions Platoon and Detachment B.  Very physically fit, the MRO sets the standard in the Detachment.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Baz (4)
Concur with the RS.  Solid, mature, and professional, the MRO has contributed to the success of Detachment B through his own MOS proficiency as well as through the Marines whom he has developed and mentored.  Extremely articulate, the MRO is an outstanding communications planner, his knowledge of the capabilities and limitations of his equipment is well above his peers. This Marine is an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer program.  Ready for the SNCO ranks! Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Bloor (3)
Concur with the RS.   Dedicated, reliable, and professional, the MRO takes a great deal of pride in his proficiency and ability to accomplish the mission.  A diligent instructor, the MRO has worked to develop the troubleshooting skills of the junior Marines.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Transmissions Platoon and Detachment B.   Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Donlan (3)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working, diligent and thorough, the MRO  is a very proficient and highly flexible NCO.  From his MOS proficiency to his innovation in utilizing GCSS-MC to ensure the maintenance readiness of Transmissions Platoon, the MRO has made a difference to the entire Detachment.
Sgt Medina (4)
Concur with the RS.  Responsible, independent, and resourceful, the MRO is one of the most proficient satellite communications terminal operators in Detachment B.  The MRO was a key player in the success that the Detachment achieved during WTI.  The MRO seeks to place himself at the point of friction, to give direction to his peers and subordinates. A natural leader and mentor, the MRO works to develop his Marines morally, mentally, and physically. Very physically fit, the MRO sets the standard in the Detachment.  Retain at all costs, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt May (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the hardest workers in the entire Detachment.  Able to focus and balance the tasks at hand, the MRO can be counted on to flow to the point of friction and ensure the work is completed correctly and on time.  Not only a proficient multichannel radio operator, the MRO is also an accomplished mechanic, who works overtime to ensure the mission readiness of the Transmissions Platoon rolling stock. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Silva (4)
A natural leader, excellent mentor, and patient teacher, the MRO sets the example for the junior NCOs and Marines in the Wire Platoon.  Always the first to volunteer for tasks and training opportunities, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission with zeal and take care of the Marines entrusted to him.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Madeiros (2)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO takes a great deal of pride in his proficiency and ability to accomplish the mission.  A diligent instructor, the MRO has taught and licensed 48 Marines on the Squadron’s tactical vehicles.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B by ensuring that the Detachment’s drivers were ready for any conditions that they may encounter.   Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Bloor (3) EN Fitrep
Proficient and dedicated, the MRO has contributed to the success of Detachment B.  The MRO has diligently contributed to mission accomplishment up until his last day on Active Duty by mentoring and training the junior Marines in his shop.  The MRO has a plan in place to move on after the Marine Corps.  
Sgt Ortega (5) TR Fitrep (2nd Fitrep)
A professional, mature, and an aggressive leader, the MRO is the complete package.  Quick thinking and decisive, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of her Marines.   The MRO provides an outstanding example for her peers and junior Marines to follow.  Physically  fit.  A must promote; this Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt.  The MRO is an excellent candidate for Drill Instructor Duty as well as for acceptance into the Warrant Officer Program.  Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Sgt Tolley (3) EN Fitrep (2nd Fitrep)
The MRO is a diligent, professional, and proficient Marine who has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B. His pride and professionalism have been on display from his first day to his last. Very physically fit. I would not hesitate to serve with this Marine again.
Sgt Harbaugh (1) GC Fitrep for NJP
Concur with RS.  This fitness report is adverse due to the MRO’s reduction to the rank of Cpl during Squadron NJP as well as due to the lack of progress while on BCP during this reporting period.    I do not recommend that this Marine be retained. 
Sgt Clark (3) EN Fitrep (2nd fitrep)
Diligent, professional and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of her Marines.  The MRO has also been an excellent mentor for some of the junior Marines in the platoon.  The MRO will be successful as she transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Richard (4) EN Fitrep (2nd)
The MRO is one of the most proficient satellite communications terminal operators in the Detachment.  Extraordinarily broad knowledge base of satellite communications, the MRO is one of the most intelligent and resourceful instructors in the Detachment.  The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps. 
Sgt Mariano (3) EN Fitrep (2nd)
Very technically proficient and resourceful, the MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments.   The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.   The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Welborn (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is among the top Sergeants in Detachment B.  Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency, leadership and professional development of his peers and subordinates.  Technically proficient and extraordinarily resourceful, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the most difficult and challenging assignments.  A force multiplier for any commander.   A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for the warrant officer program, MECEP and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Bailey (4)
Concur with the RS.  Consistent, solid, and thorough, the MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Transmission Platoon both in garrison and while in the field.  Flexible and mature, the MRO is often sought out by peers for assistance.  The MRO’s hard work, technical proficiency, and leadership were critical to the success of the Detachment during multiple exercises throughout the reporting period.  Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Crank (4 EN)
Concur with the RS.  Very technically proficient and resourceful, the MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments.   A force multiplier for transmissions platoon.  The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.   The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Daniels (4 EN, could see 3…)
Concur with the RS.  Very technically proficient and resourceful, the MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments.   Highly intelligent, the MRO spent significant amounts of time passing on his knowledge and training the other Marines in his shop.  The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.   The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Hall (4 EN)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a diligent, professional, and proficient Marine who has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B and MWCS-38. His pride and professionalism have been on display from his first day to his last as he served on the MWCS-38 Color Guard, volunteering many hours of his time to represent MWCS-38 at events both on base and out in the greater San Diego community.  The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Medina (3 EN)
Very technically proficient and resourceful, the MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments.   The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.   The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Crank (4)  END (2nd Fitrep)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a force multiplier for the transmissions platoon.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  Physically fit.   The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.   The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Daniels (4) END (1st Fitrep)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is hard working and very technically proficient and resourceful.  One of the best attributes of the MRO is his ability to receive a verbal tasking or plan and translate it into effective action without supervision.   An excellent mentor for his junior Marines, the MRO devoted most of his time to passing on his knowledge and extensive experiences to the junior Marines.  The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Donlan (1) GC Fitrep (Adverse)
Concur with the RS.  This fitrep is adverse because the MRO was convicted of assault at a Special Court Martial.  I believe that the MRO made a mistake and let his emotions get the better of him and the MRO is now facing the consequences of his actions.  As a testament to his character, during the entire period after the incident leading up to the Court Martial, the MRO did not let his pending legal issues affect his performance as a Marine at work.  In fact, the MRO did not hide his issues from his Marines, but used them as a lesson to teach the junior Marines.  In his MOS as a 0627 Ground Mobile Forces Operator, he is one of the most proficient and effective operators in Detachment B.   He operates with the most critical low density equipment in the Squadron, which is essential to terminating live services for exercises and operations.  The care and concern that the MRO approaches his tasks has been adopted by his subordinates, assisting greatly in maintaining the readiness of the satellite communication equipment.  His foresight, diligence, and ability to teach the junior Marines has expanded the capability of the Detachment and ensured mission success during 4 exercises during the reporting period alone.
His intelligence, technical proficiency, and work ethic are all above his peers but do not mitigate his actions which resulted in the Special Court Martial.  I believe that the MRO has the tools and attitude to resume his career and be successful as a Marine if he uses this incident as a to regroup and analyze his person decisions.
Sgt Clardy (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO demonstrated his attention to detail and initiative as he served as the Training NCO for a 200 Marine Detachment.  Able to work on his own, the MRO coordinated with the five platoons in the Detachment as well as Squadron and Group training sections.  Cheerful and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission. The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeants Course.  The MRO would also be very competitive for a Special Duty Assignment such as recruiting duty.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Watkins (4)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working, technically proficient, and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, filling in for the Detachment GySgt for two field exercises.  Possessing a personable and enthusiastic leadership style, the MRO approaches each project with drive and desire for mission accomplishment.   Physically fit. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  Recommend for special duty assignments such as the drill field or recruiting duty.
Sgt Baz GC (4) 2nd Fitrep
Concur with the RS.  Solid, mature, and professional, the MRO has been a cornerstone of the Detachment; he has devoted his time and effort to developing his Marines both technically and as leaders.   Extremely articulate, the MRO is an outstanding communications planner, his knowledge of the capabilities and limitations of his equipment is well above his peers and will serve him well as a Radio Chief. This Marine is an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer program.   The MRO will make an outstanding SNCO! Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Lee (5) GC to SNCO
Concur with the RS.  A dedicated mentor and leader, the MRO takes a personal interest in the development of both his peers and his subordinates.  Proficient, intelligent, and thorough the MRO works tirelessly to balance the demands of annual, leadership, and MOS training, ensuring that the Marines of Transmissions Platoon are prepared to excel in any capacity.  Physically Fit.  The MRO will make an outstanding SNCO!  Physically fit. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  Recommend for special duty assignments such as the drill field or recruiting duty.
Sgt Ovalle (2)
Concur with the RS.  FITREP is adverse due to SNM's assignment to BCP during this reporting period. The MRO has ably filled many key independent billets during field operations and training.  The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sect K Item 6: MRO was notified via phone calls and text messages after the report was sent to him and the MRO has failed to provide a statement or sign the report.
Sgt Brown (2)
Concur with the RS.  This fitrep is adverse because the MRO pleaded guilty to felony domestic assault charge by the State of California.  I believe that the MRO made a mistake and let his emotions get the better of him and the MRO is now facing the consequences of his actions.   As a testament to his character did not dispute the incident that lead up to his arrest and guilty plea, but owned up to his actions.  Furthermore, during the entire period after the incident leading up to his guilty plea, the MRO did not let his pending legal issues affect his performance as a Marine at work.   The MRO continued to perform his job as the Assistant Maintenance Management Chief for the detachment to the best of his abilities.  In the absence of the Maintenance Management Chief, the MRO ably coordinated the 1st Quarter Maintenance Stand Down for the Detachment with the different platoons and maintenance agencies to improve the maintenance readiness of Detachment B.
I do not recommend that this Marine be considered for retention or reenlistment in the Marine Corps due to the Domestic Violence conviction. 
Sgt Laredo (3 EN)
Concur with the RS.  Very technically proficient and resourceful, the MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments.   A force multiplier for transmissions platoon.  The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.   The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Calhoun (6)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the top Sergeants in the Detachment and among the top whom I have ever observed.  The MRO possesses an implicit understanding of Commanders Intent.  A consummate professional, the MRO leads from the front physically, mentally, and morally.  An influential, dynamic, and effective leader, he has been a force multiplier for Detachment B.  Unlimited potential.  Physically fit.  Promote ahead of peers and retain at all costs.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Jenkins (5)
Concur with the RS.  A consummate professional.  A  dynamic and aggressive, technically proficient leader who possesses a drive for mission accomplishment and who operates well off of mission type orders.  The MRO quickly established a reputation as one of the best Sergeants in Detachment B and earned the trust of his entire chain of command.  Capable of operating independently without supervision, the MRO’s advice and troubleshooting skills are relied upon by Detachment leadership.  An absolute must for retention and promote ahead of peers.   The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer,  MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Williams (4)
Concur with the RS.  Responsible, independent, and resourceful, the MRO is one of the most proficient satellite communications terminal operators in Detachment B.  Hard working and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his dependability and attention to detail.  Physically fit.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Most (3)
Concur with the RS.  Diligent and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated his thoroughness and attention to detail while serving as the Data Platoon’s EKMS NCO and assisting in the accountability of the Platoon’s CMR.  The MRO has also been an excellent mentor for some of the junior Marines in the platoon and aggressively looks out for their wellbeing.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Middlemas (4)
Concur with the RS.  Consistent, solid, and thorough, the MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Wire Platoon both in garrison and while in the field.  A flexible and mature leader, the MRO is often sought out by peers and junior Marines for assistance and mentorship.  The MRO’s hard work, proficiency, and leadership were critical to the success of the Detachment during multiple exercises throughout the reporting period.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Kirk (4)
Concur with the RS. The MRO is a dependable, firm, fair, and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to his subordinates and peers in the Wire Platoon. Well respected, he is often sought out by his Marines for his advice and mentorship. The MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Wire Platoon both in garrison and while in the field. Very physically fit. The MRO possesses all of the qualities needed to be successful as a reconnaissance Marine as well as being a proficient wire Marine. Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Tamagpong (4)
Concur with the RS. An exceptional troubleshooter, the MRO is one of the most technically proficient Marines in the Detachment. The MRO is relied upon to plan circuit switching diagrams for training and exercises. A mature and resourceful leader, he has done much to mentor, teach, and develop the junior Marines of the wire platoon, increasing both their leadership skills as well as their technical proficiency. The MRO is trusted by the detachment leadership to fill challenging and complex independent assignments during field exercises. Physically fit. Retain and promote with peers.
Sgt Presley (2) (2nd Fitrep)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.  Very experienced, the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment.    SNM has taken ownership of the Wire Platoon’s  Embark program and has worked diligently to further develop the program in accordance with MAW and Squadron policies.
Sgt Reynoso (4) 
Concur with the RS.  A Focused and dedicated leader, the MRO can be counted on to lead by example.  Detail orientated and thorough, the MRO has performed faultlessly as the EKMS NCO for the platoon.  The MRO has ably contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment both through her MOS and by her leadership outside of her platoon by volunteering to lead training opportunities such as land navigation.   Outstanding level of physical fitness.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  Recommend for special duty assignments such as the drill field or recruiting duty.
Sgt Henson (2)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.   Very experienced and a good communicator, the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment.  
Sgt Rushing (3) 2nd Fitrep
Concur with the RS.  Eager and enthusiastic, the MRO has worked diligently to improve the maintenance readiness and documentation as the GCSS NCO in Wire Platoon.  Displaying his leadership ability, the MRO has fostered the same can do attitude in his subordinates.  A team player, the MRO works well with both his peers and subordinates.   SNM does well in independent billets and works well off of Commander’s Intent.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Cardona (2) – adverse for BCP
Concur with the RS.  This fitrep is adverse as the MRO is being processed for assignment to the body composition program.  An experienced NCO who accomplishes assigned tasks and contributes to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B.  The MRO has also been an excellent mentor for some of the junior Marines in the platoon and looks out for their wellbeing.  Do not consider for promotion until the MRO is within height and weight standards.
Sgt Stephens (4)
Concur with the RS.  An aggressive and highly intelligent NCO, the MRO exhibits a drive for mission accomplishment that separates him from most of his peers.  An outstanding instructor, the MRO is easily able to break down complex troubleshooting steps into lessons easily understood by his seniors, peers, and subordinates.  Possesses an implicit understanding of Commander’s Intent.  Promote with peers and retain at all costs.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Uncango (5) maybe go higher?
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a force multiplier for the transmissions platoon.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  In addition to his own skill sets and leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines. Physically fit.  A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Martinez (5)
Concur with the RS.  Responsible for the development of some of the best Corporals in the Detachment, the MRO has imbued them with his same drive for mission accomplishment.  A self starter, the MRO actively seeks out new challenges to push the limits of his Marines and communication equipment.  Well respected by Detachment leadership, his peers, and subordinates.  Possesses an implicit understanding of Commander’s Intent.    Physically fit.  Promote with peers and retain at all costs.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Bailey (4)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  With his implicit understanding of Commander’s Intent, the MRO serves as a force multiplier for the entire detachment.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his dependability and aggressiveness.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  The Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Jeffries Combat Fitrep for Deployment (4-5) not entered above (fitrep 3.23, just above 3.15 ave)
Thorough and detail oriented, the MRO grew tremendously throughout a demanding deployment.  A self starter, the MRO actively seeks out new challenges to push the limits of his Marines and equipment, improving the experiences of all of the users of the 3d MAW (FWD) data networks.  Filling in admirably during the absence of his SNCO, he demonstrated his readiness for the SNCO ranks.  Well respected by Detachment leadership, his peers, and subordinates.  Possesses an implicit understanding of Commander's Intent.  Promote with peers and retain at all costs.
Sgt Rodriguez (Wire), (4 Block, not entered yet)
Concur with the RS.   Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  In addition to his own skill sets and dynamic leadership ability, the MRO has also demonstrated an ability to plan and execute changes to network architecture, an ability not common to many of his peers.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Ghee (2) just above adverse, not entered yet
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and very technically proficient, the MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.  Very experienced, the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment during a demanding deployment.  
Sgt Galiansosa (2) just above adverse
Concur with the RS.  The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks and operate independently.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment during a demanding deployment.  
Sgt Davis III (Data) (4)
Concur with the RS.  Steady, reliable, and thorough, the MRO has a poise not often found in NCOs.  The MRO's decision making, technical proficiency, and resourcefulness are all above his peers.  His ability to work independently served as a critical force multiplier for the detachment during a demanding OEF deployment.  During both communications planning and troubleshooting, his judgment and technical advice were relied upon by his leadership.  Retain and promote with peers.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, ECP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Saravia(3)
Concur with the RS.  Diligent and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated his thoroughness and attention to detail while serving as the 3d MAW Helpdesk Chief.  Demonstrating his flexibility, the MRO ably served as the Detachment logistics chief, coordinating and scheduling movements to outlying sites.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for Sergeants Course as well as the Data Supervisors Course at MCCES.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Yankovitch (4)
Concur with the RS.  Whether running a helpdesk, coordinating training, or conducting convoy oprations, the MRO is a force multiplier for the Detachment.  A flexible and mature leader of character, the MRO is often sought out by peers and junior Marines for assistance and mentorship.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision. The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission! Physically fit.  An excellent candidate for Sergeants Course.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Solis (5)
Concur with the RS.  A consummate professional.  A dynamic and aggressive technically proficient leader who possesses a drive for mission accomplishment and who operates well off of mission type orders.  The MRO quickly established a reputation as one of the best Sergeants in Detachment B and earned the trust of his entire chain of command during a demanding deployment to OEF.  Capable of operating independently without supervision, the MRO's advice and troubleshooting skills are relied upon by Detachment leadership.  An absolute must for retention and promote ahead of peers.
Sgt Moss (6)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the top Sergeants in the Detachment and among the top 5 whom I have ever observed.  A consummate professional, the MRO leads from the front physically, mentally, and morally.  An outstanding leader of Marines, the MRO is technically proficient, and extraordinarily resourceful.  The definition of a force multiplier, the MRO is the type of Marine who raises the performance of everyone around him .  Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt now!  A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer!
Sgt Cadman (3) End Fitrep (Does not count)
Proficient and dedicated, the MRO has contributed to the success of Detachment B.  The MRO has diligently contributed to mission accomplishment up until his last day on Active Duty by mentoring and training the junior Marines in his shop.  The MRO has a plan in place to move on after the Marine Corps.  
Sgt Prior (6)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the top Sergeants in the Detachment and among the top 5 whom I have ever observed.  A consummate professional, the MRO leads from the front physically, mentally, and morally.  Technically proficient across the realm of communications, the MRO has a knowledge base beyond most of his peers and will make an outstanding SNCO!  Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency, leadership and professional development in his subordinates.  This Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt now!  A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
I most enthusiastically concur with the accelerated promotion recommendation submitted by the RS.  The MRO embodies the Marine Corps Core Values of Honor, Courage, and Commitment.   The MRO serves as a force multiplier for the Detachment inside and outside the realm of communications.  He possesses a sophisticated understanding of not just his MOS, but that of data networks as well.  The experience and knowledge that he has gained in these areas is equivalent to that of a senior Gunnery Sergeant or Master Sergeant.  As a leader, he is respected by his seniors, subordinates, and especially his peers.  He possesses the drive, initiative, and leadership ability to conduct planning, task his peers, supervise their work, correcting their deficiencies, and then delivering a completed project to the Detachment.  This Marine needs to be promoted now to ensure that his rank is commensurate with the responsibility that he holds. 
Sgt Toomer (3)
Eager and enthusiastic, the MRO made the most of a demanding deployment to Afghanistan, increasing his technical proficiency as well as building his decisiveness and judgment as a leader.  The MRO repeatedly demonstrated his ability to operate independently as he managed multiple commercial installations throughout Camp Leatherneck.  His thoroughness and attention to detail was displayed as he diligently managed the distribution and control of all of the Detachments CCI and keying material.  Physically fit.  An excellent candidate for Sergeants Course.  Retain and promote with peers.
Sgt Wiborn (7)
Concur with the RS.   The MRO is the number sergeant I have observed as an RS and RO.  A decisive, dynamic, and inspiring leader of Marines, the MRO is a master of his craft.  There is no challenge, leadership or technical that he cannot solve. A consummate professional, the MRO leads from the front physically, mentally, and morally.  Technically proficient across the realm of communications, the MRO has a knowledge base beyond almost all of the SNCOs I have encountered from his MOS.  Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency, leadership and professional development in his subordinates.  This Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt now!  A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
I most enthusiastically concur with the accelerated promotion recommendation submitted by the RS.  The MRO embodies the Marine Corps Core Values of Honor, Courage, and Commitment.   He leads from the front with a passion, vigor, and enthusiasm that inspires all of the Marines around him.  The MRO serves as a force multiplier for the Detachment inside and outside the realm of communications.  He possesses a sophisticated understanding of not just his MOS, but that across the spectrum of communications.  The experience and knowledge that he has gained in these areas is equivalent to that of a senior Gunnery Sergeant or Master Sergeant.  As a leader, he is respected by his seniors, subordinates, and especially his peers.  He possesses the drive, initiative, and leadership ability to conduct planning, task his peers, supervise their work, correct their deficiencies, and then delivering a completed project to the Detachment.  This Marine needs to be promoted now to ensure that his rank is commensurate with the responsibility that he holds. 
Sgt Molano (5)
Concur with the RS. The MRO is a force multiplier for the transmissions platoon.  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment. Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision. In addition to his own skill sets and leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines. Physically fit. A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Mussman (3)
Concur with the RS.  Intelligent and resourceful, the MRO has continued to demonstrate his initiative and work ethic while serving as the Records NCO.   His efforts have directly contributed to maintaining the mission readiness of critical transmission equipment in a high op tempo environment.  Independent, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines. Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Price (4)
Concur with the RS.  Very technically proficient and resourceful, the MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments. The MRO works hard both to pass his knowledge, dedication, and experience down to his junior Marines as well as to ensure the mission readiness of his satellite communications equipment.  The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines. Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Clardy
Sgt Rodriguez (Radio) (3)
Concur with the RS.   Dedicated, reliable, and professional, the MRO takes a great deal of pride in his proficiency and ability to accomplish the mission.  A diligent instructor, the MRO has worked to develop the troubleshooting skills of the junior Marines.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Transmissions Platoon and Detachment B.   Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Hollins (3)
Concur with the RS.   A solid and professional radio operator, the MRO takes a great deal of pride in his proficiency and ability to accomplish the mission.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Transmissions Platoon and Detachment B.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Renaud (3)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and dedicated to mission accomplishment, the MRO takes every opportunity to expand her horizons, growing both in her MOS and leadership proficiency.  Quick to volunteer for tasks inside the platoon and to support the rest of the Detachment, her concern for her peers and subordinates is evident.   An excellent candidate for Sergeants Course.   I recommend this Marine for retention and a special duty assignment such as the recruiting or the drill field to further develop her as a NCO and prepare her for the SNCO ranks.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Rocha (4) 
Concur with the RS.   Dedicated, reliable, and professional, the MRO takes a great deal of pride in his proficiency in single channel radio communications and ability to accomplish the mission.  A diligent instructor, the MRO has worked to develop the troubleshooting skills of the junior Marines.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Transmissions Platoon and Detachment B.   Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Johnson (4)
Concur with the RS.  Energetic, solid, and thorough, the MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Transmissions Platoon both in garrison and while in the field.  A flexible and mature leader, the MRO is often sought out by peers and junior Marines for assistance and mentorship.  The MRO’s hard work, proficiency, and leadership were critical to developing her Marines and facilitating the success of the Detachment during multiple exercises throughout the reporting period.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Davis
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and enthusiastic, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of Detachment B.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his leadership ability, dependability and aggressiveness.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Webb (5)
Focused, dedicated, and professional, the MRO has been one of the cornerstones of Transmissions Platoon.  During a period of high turnover and the deployment of several key SNCOs and NCOs, the MRO stepped up to fill the role of the SNCOIC for a month during the reporting period.  He has repeatedly demonstrated his hunger for more responsibility and a concern for subordinate development, all hallmarks of a leader with a tremendous potential.  I highly recommend this Marine for retention and a special duty assignment.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Pelo (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a force multiplier for Detachment B.  An outstanding communications planner, his grasp of the capabilities and limitations of communications equipment is far beyond his peers.  His personal efforts, as well as the Marines under his charge, have been critical to the success of the Detachment.  He has repeatedly demonstrated his hunger for more responsibility, his calmness under pressure, and a concern for subordinate development, all hallmarks of a leader with a tremendous potential.  A must promote at the first opportunity.  This Marine is an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Sgt Watkins (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a force multiplier for Detachment B .  An outstanding leader, his efforts, as well as the Marines under his charge, have been critical to the success of the Detachment.  He has repeatedly demonstrated his hunger for more responsibility, his calmness under pressure, and a concern for subordinate development, all hallmarks of a leader with a tremendous potential.   I highly recommend this Marine for retention and a special duty assignment such as the recruiting or the drill field to further develop him as a NCO and prepare him for the SNCO ranks.  Promote ahead of peers and retain at all costs!
Sgt Lindsey (4)
Concur with the RS.  Enthusiastic and technically proficient, the MRO is one of two Sergeants in his MOS on the deployment.  His personal efforts, as well as the Marines under his charge, have been critical to the success of the Detachment.  He has repeatedly demonstrated his hunger for more responsibility, his calmness under pressure, and a concern for subordinate development, all hallmarks of a leader with a tremendous potential.   I highly recommend this Marine for retention and a special duty assignment such as the recruiting or the drill field to further develop him as a NCO and prepare him for the SNCO ranks.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Welborn (5) 1st Fitrep as a Co GySgt
Concur with the RS.  The MRO was hand selected to serve as the Detachment GySgt for Detachment B’s  deployment with MAG-50 because of his initiative, drive, and hunger for more responsibility.   His personal efforts in coordinating with the other tenant units of MAG-50 and on the camp itself has been exemplary.  He has ensured that all of the MWCS-38 Marines have all of their logistical, billeting, and training requirements filled.  He has repeatedly demonstrated maturity, judgment, calmness under pressure, and a concern for subordinate development, all hallmarks of a leader with a tremendous potential.  I highly recommend this Marine for assignment to the drill field.  A must retain, promote ahead of peers, and continue to challenge this Marine!

Sgt Wilson (5)? (need to  look up after this one runs)
Concur with the RS.   Highly intelligent and mature, the MRO brings an inspiring presence to his platoon and the rest of the Detachment.  An acknowledged leader in the Detachment, the MRO has ably contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment both through his MOS and by his leadership outside of the Wire platoon by volunteering to lead training opportunities such as MCMAP courses.  Great depth of character.  Outstanding level of physical fitness.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  Highly recommend for a special duty assignment to the drill field.
Sgt Howard
Concur with the RS.  Mature and dependable, the MRO has made a significant impact on the Detachment by his ownership of the MAG-50 Helpdesk.  Under the MRO’s leadership and careful supervision, the helpdesk has continually won accolades for prompt and accurate service.  His critical thinking, courage, and ability to hold his subordinates accountable demonstrate his great potential.  He has repeatedly demonstrated his hunger for more responsibility, his calmness under pressure, and a concern for subordinate development.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  
Sgt Boehm (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  The MRO is a dependable, firm, fair, and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to his subordinates and peers in the Wire Platoon. Well respected, he is often sought out by his Marines for his advice and mentorship. The MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Wire Platoon both in garrison and now deployed to the Middle East with MAG-50.   Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Villeneuva (4)
Concur with the RS.  Responsible, independent, and resourceful, the MRO is one of the most proficient tactical switchboard operators in Detachment B.  The MRO was a key player in the success that the Detachment achieved during several key exercises leading up to the deployment with MAG-50.   The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his dependability and attention to detail.  Physically fit.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Wolf (4)
Concur with the RS.  Firm, fair, and solid, the MRO maximizes his opportunities to excel, both as a seasoned leader and technically as a communications planner.  Always eager for new challenges inside and out of his MOS, the MRO seeks to place himself at the point of friction, to give direction to his peers and subordinates.   A natural leader and mentor, the MRO works to develop his Marines morally, mentally, and physically. The MRO sets the standard for professionalism in the Detachment.  Retain at all costs, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt May (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the hardest workers in the entire Detachment.  Able to focus and balance the tasks at hand, the MRO can be counted on to flow to the point of friction and ensure the work is completed correctly and on time.  Not only a proficient multichannel radio operator, the MRO is also an accomplished mechanic, who works overtime to ensure the mission readiness of the Transmissions Platoon rolling stock. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Calhoun (6)
Leading from the front, the MRO's drive, dedication, and personal commitment makes difference to not only the Marines of Transmissions Platoon, but to all of the Marines in the Detachment.  The impact of his devotion, mentorship, and training can be seen daily in the growth of his NCOs.  Courageous and unselfish, the MRO can be relied upon to provide accurate and timely feedback to platoon and detachment leadership.  Unlimited potential inside and outside the MOS.  Physically fit.  Promote ahead of peers, the MRO is a must retain.  Outstanding candidate for Officer Programs!
Sgt Moret (4)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and enthusiastic, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of Detachment B.   Professional and engaged, the MRO can always be found at the point of friction, taking charge of the situation.  An excellent mentor for many of the junior Marines in the platoon.   The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty.   Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Martinez  (2) GC
Concur with the RS.  During this reporting period, the MRO continued his strong performance displaying his MOS proficiency and contributing to the growth and leadership development of the Marines under his charge.  He performed admirably over the course of a seven month deployment in support of Marine Aircraft Group 50, where his Marines distinguished themselves by their spirit and drive for mission accomplishment.  Returning from the deployment, he displayed poor judgment by deciding to operate his vehicle while intoxicated.  The MRO has taken full responsibility for his actions that resulted in his NJP and loss of rank.  The MRO still has the trust and confidence of his chain of command.  The MRO has displayed continued hard work, dedication, and a desire to see his Marines succeed and avoid his mistake.  I firmly believe that this Marine has taken ownership of his actions, accepted the consequences, and will positively impact the success of Detachment B.  I look forward to continuing to serve with this Marine.  I believe that the MRO still has much to offer the Marine Corps and his Marines.
Sgt Wolf (5) TR
A consummate professional. The MRO is one of the most mature leaders in the detachment. He provided a consistent and steadying influence to the Marines of his platoon during the deployment, ensuring the focus remained on mission accomplishment. Under his leadership, the Marines of Wire Platoon exceeded all expectations with the communications commercialization project. This Marine is ready for SSgt now! Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine. The MRO would be well suited for independent duty assignments such as recruiting duty.
Sgt Stephens (5) TR
A consummate professional, the MRO is highly intelligent and dedicated to mission accomplishment.  The MRO maximizes his opportunities to excel, both as a leader and technically as a communications planner.  Seeks to place himself at the point of friction.  Always eager for new challenges inside and out of his MOS.  An excellent instructor and mentor, the MRO works to constantly improve his Marines.  Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Gaglio (6)
Concur with the RS.  A consummate professional, the MRO is highly intelligent and dedicated to mission accomplishment.  The MRO maximizes his opportunities to excel, both as a leader and technically as a utilities chief.  Filled the role of an 1169 utilities chief for the majority of the deployment.  Seeks to place himself at the point of friction.  Always eager for new challenges inside and out of his MOS.  An excellent instructor and mentor, the MRO works to constantly improve his Marines in all aspects.  Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Baughman (5)
Concur with the RS.  Independent and devoted to mission accomplishment, the MRO served as a force multiplier for the detachment.  Very proficient at his MOS and an excellent instructor, the MRO was critical to the development of an aggressive Information Security Posture maintained by communication Marines protecting MAG-50’s data networks.  Outstanding maturity and judgment.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Miya (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  The MRO is a dependable, firm, fair, and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to his subordinates in the maintenance section. Well respected, he is often sought out by his Marines for his advice and mentorship. The MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of CEM Platoon both in garrison and now deployed to the Middle East with MAG-50.   Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Laster (5)
Concur with the RS.  A consummate professional, the MRO is highly intelligent and dedicated to mission accomplishment.  The MRO maximizes his opportunities to excel, both as a leader and technically.  Seeks to place himself at the point of friction.  Always eager for new challenges inside and out of his MOS.  An excellent instructor and mentor, the MRO works to constantly improve his Marines in all aspects.  Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Welborn ()2nd fitrep as Co GySgt
The MRO has continued to perform superbly in his billet as Detachment GySgt.  The MRO approaches his duties with maturity, professionalism and drive for mission accomplishment, qualities that make him stand out from his peers.  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor. A committed mentor, the MRO works to constantly improve the Marines of the detachment.  Physically fit.  Retain at all costs, a must promote and continue to challenge this Marine. The MRO is an excellent candidate for the drill field.
Sgt Powell (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is among the top Sergeants in Detachment B.  A dedicated mentor and energetic leader, the MRO takes a personal interest in the development of both his peers and his subordinates.  Proficient, intelligent, and thorough the MRO works tirelessly to balance the demands of annual, leadership, and MOS training, ensuring that the Marines of Transmissions Platoon are prepared to excel in any capacity. A force multiplier for any commander.  Physically fit.   A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for MECEP and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Uncango (5)
An engaged leader and mentor who has impacted every Marine around him during a demanding deployment.   Outstanding MOS proficiency.  Repeatedly entrusted with the most difficult assignments by platoon and detachment leadership.  He has demonstrated his hunger for more responsibility, his calmness under pressure, and a concern for subordinate development, all hallmarks of a leader with a outstanding potential.   Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Renaud (4)
Concur with the RS.  Consistent, solid, and thorough, the MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Transmissions Platoon both in garrison and during deployed operations.  A flexible and mature leader, the MRO is often sought out by peers and junior Marines for assistance and mentorship.  The MRO’s hard work, proficiency, and leadership were critical to the success of the Detachment during a demanding deployment.  The MRO uses every opportunity to grow inside and outside of her MOS.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Reyes (5)
The MRO is among the top Sergeants in Detachment B.  A dedicated mentor and leader, the MRO takes a personal interest in the development of both his peers and his subordinates. The MRO's hard work, proficiency, and leadership were critical to the success of the Detachment during a demanding deployment.  The MRO works tirelessly to balance the demands of annual, leadership, and MOS training, ensuring that the Marines of Wire Platoon are prepared to excel in any capacity. A force multiplier for any commander.  Physically fit. Promote ahead of peers and retain at all costs.
Sgt May (3) Radio
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the hardest workers in Detachment B.   The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Radio Platoon and Detachment B.   
Wiborn (7)
A consummate professional who excels under any conditions.  The most complete sergeant whom I have ever served with, the MRO sets the standard for excellence in Detachment B.  A decisive, dynamic, and inspiring leader of Marines.  There is no challenge, leadership or technical that he cannot solve.  His leadership and mentorship have been critical to developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept.   Technically proficient across the realm of communications.  A must for retention, and ready for promotion now.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer.
Lindsley (4)
The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  The MRO is a dependable, firm, fair, and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to his subordinates in Data Platoon, developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept. Well respected, he is often sought out by his Marines for his advice and mentorship. The MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Data Platoon both during a demanding deployment and in garrison.   Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Wilson (5)
The MRO is highly intelligent and dedicated to mission accomplishment.  The MRO’s hard work, proficiency, and leadership were critical to the success of the Detachment during a demanding deployment.  Seeks to place himself at the point of friction.  Always eager for new challenges inside and out of his MOS.  An excellent instructor and mentor, the MRO works to constantly improve his Marines in all aspects. Well respected, he is often sought out by his Marines for his advice and mentorship. Physically fit.  Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  
Boehm (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  The MRO is a dependable, firm, fair, and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to his subordinates in Wire Platoon. Well respected, he is often sought out by his Marines for his advice and mentorship. The MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Wire Platoon both on deployment and in garrison.   Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Villeneuva (4)
The MRO is a hardworking, solid leader, who is proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills.  The MRP has consistently been a key contributor to the success of Detachment B and Wire platoon both during a demanding deployment and in garrison.   Professional and engaged, the MRO can always be found at the point of friction, taking charge of the situation.  An excellent mentor for many of the junior Marines in the platoon.   The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty or the drill field.   Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Howard (4)
This report is adverse due to SNM's assignment to BCP during this reporting period. Firm, fair, and solid, the MRO maximizes his opportunities to excel, both as a seasoned leader and technically as a field wireman and switchboard operator.  Remains calm under pressure.  Ready to execute any task no matter how difficult.  Always eager for new challenges inside and out of his MOS, the MRO seeks to place himself at the point of friction, to give direction to his peers and subordinates.   A natural leader and mentor, the MRO works to develop his Marines morally, mentally, and physically. 
 I firmly believe that this Marine has taken ownership of weight and will soon end up removing himself from BCP.  I have no doubt that the MRO will continue to positively impact the success of Detachment B.  I look forward to continuing to serve with this Marine.  This Marine offers much to the Marines and the mission accomplishment of the unit and has my highest recommendation for retention.  Do not consider for promotion until the MRO is within height and weight standards.
Calip (5)
A firm, confident, and poised leader, the MRO maximizes her opportunities to excel inside and outside her MOS, and contributed greatly to the success of Detachment B on a demanding deployment.  A natural leader and mentor who has demonstrated her hunger for more responsibility, her calmness under pressure, and a concern for subordinate development.  The MRO sets the standard for professionalism in the Detachment.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty or the drill field.   Retain, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Rushing (3)
This fitrep is adverse due to SNM being out of height and weight standards.  An experienced NCO who accomplishes assigned tasks and contributes to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B.  During a period of high operational tempo and personnel turnover, the MRO provided stability and continuity for Wire Platoon.  SNM is not recommended for promotion or retention at this time.  Directed Comment, Sect K, Item 6: SNM was notified about the adverse nature of the report while he was on active duty.  SNM is no longer on active duty and is unable to sign the report electronically.
Sgt Uncango (5)
The MRO is an outstanding leader who is technically and tactically proficient.  The MRO has repeatedly demonstrated his abilities on deployments, exercises, and garrison operations.  There is no challenge, leadership or technical that he cannot solve.  His leadership and mentorship have been critical to developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept.   Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Sgt Sanchez (4) END Fitrep.
Highly intelligent and hardworking, the MRO plays a vital role in Detachment B’s success.  He is a highly versatile NCO who operates with outstanding initiative and judgment.  Excellent at solving problems at his level and facilitating communication both laterally and to the chain of command.  The MRO is an excellent mentor for the junior Marines.  Physically fit.  The MRO will be successful as he makes his transition out of the Marine Corps.  I would not hesitate to serve with this Marine again.
Sgt Greenburg (3) END Fitrep
The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  Highly intelligent.  The MRO is a fir, fair, and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to his subordinates in Data Platoon, developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept. Well respected, he is often sought out by his Marines for his advice and mentorship. The MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Data Platoon both during a demanding deployment and in garrison.   I would not hesitate to serve with this Marine again.
Sgt Rufus (5)
Highly intelligent and hardworking, the MRO plays a vital role in Detachment B's success.  He is a highly versatile NCO who operates with outstanding initiative and judgment.  His hard work and ingenuity have improved maintenance administration in Marines of all ranks, increasing maintenance readiness.  Excellent at solving problems at his level and facilitating communication between each of the detachment's platoons and the maintenance commodities.  The MRO is an excellent mentor for the junior Marines.  Retain, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Welborn (6)
The MRO is one of the top NCOs in Detachment B.  There is no challenge, leadership or technical that he cannot solve. A consummate professional, the MRO leads from the front physically, mentally, and morally.  He possesses the drive, initiative, and leadership ability to conduct planning, task his peers, supervise their work, correct their deficiencies, and then deliver a completed project to the Detachment.  The MRO already performs at a level equivalent to a seasoned SNCO.   This Marine has demonstrated that he is ready for the SNCO ranks.  A must for retention and promotion at the first opportunity.
Sgt Howard (4)
Highly intelligent and mature, the MRO brings an inspiring presence to his platoon and the rest of the Detachment.  An acknowledged leader in the Detachment, the MRO has ably contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment both through his MOS and by his leadership outside of the Wire platoon.  A self starter, the MRO works well off of Commander’s Intent.  Great depth of character.  A natural mentor, the MRO has played a significant role in developing a cohesive, well trained, wire platoon capable of accomplishing the mission under any circumstances.
 I firmly believe that this Marine has taken ownership of weight and will soon end up removing himself from BCP.  I have no doubt that the MRO will continue to positively impact the success of Detachment B.  I look forward to continuing to serve with this Marine.  This Marine offers much to the Marines and the mission accomplishment of the unit and has my highest recommendation for retention.  Do not consider for promotion until the MRO is within height and weight standards.
Cardona (4)
A mature and highly aggressive NCO, the MRO has worked to enhance the mission readiness of the Marines in Detachment B.  Demonstrating her attention to detail, she has overhauled most of the administrative programs in the detachment, enabling leadership to closely track on anything affecting the medical and administrative readiness of the Marines.  A self-starter, the MRO is a force multiplier for the detachment.  A proven leader, she has made a lasting impact on many Marines throughout the squadron and 3d MAW through her volunteer efforts.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
May, Skyler (4)
Enthusiastic and technically proficient, the MRO’s personal efforts, as well as the Marines under his charge, have been critical to the success of the Detachment.  He has repeatedly demonstrated his hunger for more responsibility, his calmness under pressure, and a concern for subordinate development, all hallmarks of a leader with a tremendous potential.   I highly recommend this Marine for retention and a special duty assignment such as the recruiting or the drill field to further develop him as a NCO and prepare him for the SNCO ranks.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Jones, Data (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a force multiplier for the data platoon.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  In addition to his own skill sets and leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines.  A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Lindsley (4)
Concur with the RS.  Consistent, solid, and thorough, the MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Data Platoon both in garrison and while in the field.  Flexible and mature, the MRO is often sought out by peers and subordinates for assistance.  The MRO’s hard work, technical proficiency, and leadership were critical to the success of the Detachment during multiple exercises throughout the reporting period.  The MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Wiborn (7)
The MRO is the number sergeant I have observed as an RS and RO. A decisive, dynamic, and inspiring leader of Marines, the MRO is a master of his craft. There is no challenge, leadership or technical that he cannot solve. Technically proficient across the realm of communications, the MRO has a knowledge base beyond almost all of the SNCOs I have encountered from his MOS. Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency, leadership and professional development in his subordinates. This Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt now! A must promote, retain at all costs. The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer.
Calip (5)
Concur with the RS.  A consummate professional, the MRO has taken on opportunities to expand her horizons inside and outside of her MOS.  The MRO is a dependable and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to her subordinates in Wire Platoon. Well respected, she is often sought out by her Marines for advice and mentorship. The MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Wire Platoon during deployments, field exercises, and in garrison.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty or the drill field.   Retain, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Kirk (3)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.   Very experienced and a good communicator, the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment.  Physically fit.  
Shapiro (4)
Concur with the RS.  A highly resourceful and flexible leader, the MRO is a force multiplier for wire platoon.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  In addition to her own skill sets and mature leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing her junior Marines. Physically fit.  A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Yankovitch (4)  
A dedicated mentor and proven leader, the MRO takes a personal interest in the development of both her peers and her subordinates, developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.   The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty or the drill field.   Retain and promote ahead of peers.
Villanueva (5) could go higher, depending on Lt Blevins.
The MRO is highly intelligent and dedicated to mission accomplishment.  The MRO’s hard work, proficiency, and leadership were critical to the success of the Detachment during a period of high operational tempo.  Seeks to place himself at the point of friction.  Always eager for new challenges inside and out of his MOS.  An excellent instructor and mentor, the MRO works to constantly improve his Marines in all aspects, developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept.  Physically fit.  Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  
Wilson (5)
The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  The MRO is a dependable, firm, fair, and mature leader of Marines who has made a difference to his subordinates in Wire Platoon, developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept. Well respected, he is often sought out by his Marines for his advice and mentorship. The MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Wire Platoon during a period of high operational tempo.   Physically fit.  Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Boehm (4)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command.  The MRO’s hard work, proficiency, and leadership were critical to developing his Marines and facilitating the success of Detachment B during multiple exercises throughout the reporting period.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Day (3)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is the most proficient voice switchboard operator in the Detachment.  A master at troubleshooting complex communication problems.  Extraordinarily broad knowledge base, the MRO is one of the most intelligent and resourceful instructors in the Detachment.  The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks and operate independently.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment during a period of high operational tempo, ensuring that the junior Wire Marines had the technical knowledge and experience to be prepared for exercises and deployments.
Prior (6)
The MRO is among the top 5 whom I have ever observed.  A consummate professional, the MRO leads from the front, ably filling a SNCO’s billet during the reporting period.  Technically proficient across the realm of communications and extremely resourceful, the MRO has a knowledge base beyond almost all of the SNCOs I have encountered from his MOS.  The definition of a force multiplier, the MRO is the type of Marine and mentor who raises the performance of everyone around him.  Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt now!  A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer.
Sgt Johnson (4)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and enthusiastic, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of her Marines.  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of Detachment B.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, consistently displaying her leadership ability and dependability.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  The MRO will be successful as she transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Renaud (4)
Concur with the RS.  Energetic, solid, and thorough, the MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Radio Platoon both in garrison and while in the field.  A flexible and mature leader, the MRO is often sought out by peers and junior Marines for assistance and mentorship.  The MRO’s hard work, proficiency, and leadership were critical to developing her Marines and facilitating the success of the Detachment during multiple exercises and events throughout the reporting period.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Jones (Radio) (4)
Concur with the RS.  Mature and highly capable, the MRO is a force multiplier for the radio platoon.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  In addition to her own skill sets and leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing her junior Marines.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Bacon (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a force multiplier for radio platoon.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment.  Aggressive and focused on mission accomplishment, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  In addition to his own skill sets and leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines. Physically fit.  A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Leverette (4) 
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is one of the most proficient single channel radio operators in the Detachment.  A highly adaptable and versatile NCO, the MRO is counted on to fill the gaps in Radio  Platoon and help out his peers and subordinates alike.  Professional and engaged, the MRO can always be found at the point of friction, taking charge of the situation.  An excellent mentor for many of the junior Marines in the platoon.   The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty or the drill field.   Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Presley (2)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.   Very experienced , the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment.  
Sgt Houston (5)
The MRO is among the top Sergeants in Detachment B.  Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency, leadership and professional development of his peers and subordinates.  Technically proficient and extraordinarily resourceful, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the most difficult and challenging assignments.  The MRO is one of the most intelligent and resourceful instructors in the Detachment.  A force multiplier for any commander.   A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for Recruiting duty as well as the warrant officer program.  
Sgt Rodriguez (4)
Concur with the RS.  Mature and highly capable, the MRO is a force multiplier for the radio platoon.  Deeply proficient over a wide range of MOS skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment during multiple exercises.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  In addition to his own skill sets and leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Ramirez (3)
Concur with the RS.  Hard working and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his dependability and attention to detail.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Palacios (3)
Concur with the RS.   A solid and professional radio operator, the MRO takes a great deal of pride in his proficiency and ability to accomplish the mission.  The MRO takes every opportunity to expand his horizons, growing both in his MOS and leadership proficiency.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Radio Platoon and Detachment B during WTI.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Medina (3)
Concur with the RS.   Dedicated, reliable, and professional, the MRO takes a great deal of pride in his proficiency in single channel radio communications and ability to accomplish the mission.  A diligent instructor, the MRO has worked to develop the troubleshooting skills of the junior Marines.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Transmissions Platoon and Detachment B during a period of high operational tempo.   Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Webb (5)
The MRO is a force multiplier for the Radio platoon and has ably filled the role of SNCOIC of a 36 Marine Platoon.  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has been a key contributor to the success of the entire detachment.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  The MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines. I highly recommended for a SDA such as the Drill Field.  Physically fit. A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Hollins (4) TR last fitrep before B billet
Responsible, independent, and resourceful, the MRO is one of the most proficient radio operators in Detachment B.  Hard working and reliable, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his dependability and attention to detail.  The MRO has ably filled many key independent billets during field operations and training.  Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Powell (5)
Concur with the RS. The MRO is a force multiplier for the radio platoon.  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has consistently been a key contributor to the success of the detachment. Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  Unlimited potential.  In addition to his own skill sets and leadership ability, the MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing his junior Marines. Physically fit. A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Smith (3)
Consistent and thorough, the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B during a period of high operational tempo.  The MRO is one of the most intelligent and resourceful instructors in the Detachment, working to develop the whole Marine Concept in his subordinates.  The MRO has also been an excellent mentor for some of the junior Marines in the platoon.  Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Vargas (5)
A consummate professional, the MRO is highly intelligent and dedicated to mission accomplishment.  The MRO maximizes his opportunities to excel, both as a leader and technically as a communications planner.  Seeks to place himself at the point of friction.  Always eager for new challenges inside and out of his MOS.  An excellent instructor and mentor, the MRO works to constantly improve his Marines.  Retain at all costs, promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Prosise (3)
Concur with the RS.  Flexible and resourceful, the MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments. The MRO works hard both to pass his knowledge, dedication, and experience down to his junior Marines as well as to ensure the mission readiness of his satellite communications equipment.  The MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines. Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Calhoun (6)
Concur with the RS.  A consummate professional.  A  dynamic and aggressive, technically proficient leader who possesses a drive for mission accomplishment and who operates well off of mission type orders.  The MRO maintains his reputation as one of the best Sergeants in Detachment B and earned the trust of his entire chain of command.  Capable of operating independently without supervision, the MRO’s advice, leadership, and judgment are relied upon by detachment leadership.  An absolute must for retention and promote ahead of peers.   The MRO is an outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer, MECEP, and other commissioning programs.
Garcia (5)
Concur with the RS.  Responsible, independent, and resourceful, the MRO is one of the most proficient satellite communications terminal operators in Detachment B.  The MRO was a key player in the success that the Detachment achieved during WTI.  The MRO seeks to place himself at the point of friction, to give direction to his peers and subordinates. A natural leader and mentor, the MRO works to develop his Marines morally, mentally, and physically. Very physically fit, the MRO sets the standard in the Detachment.  Retain at all costs, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Guinn (5)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is among the top Sergeants in Detachment B.  A dedicated mentor and ardent leader, the MRO takes a personal interest in the development of both his peers and his subordinates.  Proficient, intelligent, and thorough the MRO works tirelessly to balance the demands of annual, leadership, and MOS training, ensuring that the Marines of Transmissions Platoon are prepared to excel in any capacity. A force multiplier for any commander.  A must promote, retain at all costs.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for MECEP and other commissioning programs.
Schroeder (3)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.  Mature and responsible, the MRO has displayed sound judgment and decision making.  Very experienced and resourceful, the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Martin (4)
An effective and able instructor, the MRO has greatly contributed to the increase in proficiency and familiarity of many of her peers and her junior Marines with satellite transmission systems. Intelligent, thorough, and dependable, the MRO has quickly established the reputation of one of the go to Marines in the platoon.  Great depth of character.  A dedicated mentor, she has contributed to the growth and leadership development of the Marines under her charge.  Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.   This Marine would make an excellent candidate for Warrant Officer.
Sgt Page (4)
Concur with the RS.  Consistent, solid, and thorough, the MRO has done much to ensure the mission accomplishment of Transmission Platoon both in garrison and while in the field.  Flexible and mature, the MRO is often sought out by peers for assistance.  The MRO's hard work, proficiency, and troubleshooting abilities were critical to the success of the Detachment during WTI.  Physically fit.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.

Sgt Orman (4)
Concur with RS.  A consistent and thorough NCO, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of Marines within the intelligence section.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his reliability and attention to detail.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Aragon 7
The MRO is a force multiplier for the team.  Outstanding writer!  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has been a key contributor to the success of the team.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  The MRO is an excellent teacher who has put much time into mentoring and developing Marines. I highly recommended for a SDA such as the drill field or recruiting duty.  Outstanding candidate for Officer Programs! Physically fit. A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.

Sgt Aragon (7) GC Fitrep
The MRO is ready for the rank of SSgt!  An aggressive and dynamic leader of Marines, the MRO has been selected for an advanced cyber operations workrole, building upon his already solid analytical skills.  Highly professional, his communication skills and writing abilities are far beyond his peers.  Outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer and Unrestricted Officer Programs! Physically fit. A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Kamble 7 
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is the complete package.  An aggressive, independent, forward thinking leader of Marines.   One of the most mature Sgts on the team. The MRO possesses a deep and broad understanding of his MOS, and is often found at the point of friction, providing direction and order to civilian and Marine counterparts within his team of analysts.  Physically fit.  A must promote; this Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt.  The MRO is an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Sgt Powell 5 
The MRO is among the top Sergeants on the team and the top analyst within the team.  Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency and professional development of his peers and subordinates.  Technically proficient and extraordinarily resourceful, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the most difficult and challenging assignments.  The MRO is one of the most intelligent and resourceful instructors I have ever observed.  A force multiplier for any commander.   A must for promotion and retention.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty as well as the warrant officer program.  
Sgt Enright (6) Not entered
The MRO is a force multiplier for the team.  Outstanding writer!  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has been a key contributor to the success of the G-6.  Mature and detail oriented, the MRO can be trusted to execute the most critical tasks without supervision.  The MRO’s advice, leadership, and judgment are relied upon by leadership. A must promote; this Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt.  The MRO is an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Sgt Liddell
Concur with the RS.  Responsible, independent, and resourceful, the MRO is one of the most proficient cyberspace operators within the team.  His skillsets are in high demand across the MARFOR in multiple capacities.  The MRO’s advice, leadership, and judgment are relied upon by leadership.  Confident and poised, the MRO will make an outstanding SNCO who will benefit his Marines and the Marine Corps for years to come.  Highly recommended for lateral move into the 17xx community. Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Sgt Woolen
Concur with the RS.  Responsible, independent, and highly intelligent, the MRO is one of the most proficient and technically adept cyberspace operators within the team.  The MRO is in the process of completing one of the most demanding training pipelines within the Marine Corps and cyberspace.  He will benefit the Marine Corps for years to come! Levelheaded and highly analytical, the MRO will make an outstanding SNCO.  Highly recommended for lateral move into the 17xx community. Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!

Sgt Gibson (4)
Concur with the RS.  Responsible, independent, and resourceful, the MRO is one of the most proficient cyberspace analysts within the team.  His skillsets are in high demand across the MARFOR in multiple capacities.  The MRO can be trusted to fill challenging and complex independent assignments and has served as a multiplier for the team.   Highly intelligent, the MRO spent significant amounts of time passing on his knowledge and training to other Marines.  The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.
Sgt Berkowitz (5)
The MRO is ready for the rank of SSgt!  An aggressive, independent, forward thinking leader of Marines. Highly professional and intelligent, the MRO serves as a force multiplier for the team and the task force.  The MRO’s advice, leadership, and judgment are relied upon by leadership.  Outstanding candidate for Warrant Officer! Physically fit.  A must for retention, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Powell 5 
The MRO is among the top Sergeants on the team and the top analyst within the team.  Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency and professional development of his peers and subordinates.  Technically proficient and extraordinarily resourceful, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the most difficult and challenging assignments.  Highly intelligent, the MRO spent significant amounts of time passing on his knowledge and training to other Marines.  The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.

Kamble (7)
Concur with the RS- Briefer this Marine is a 6.  The MRO is the complete package.  An aggressive, independent, forward thinking leader of Marines already fulfilling the role of a seasoned SNCO. The MRO possesses a deep and broad understanding of his MOS, and is often found at the point of friction, providing direction and order to civilian and Marine counterparts within his team of analysts.  Physically fit.  Promote this Marine now; this Marine is ready for the rank of SSgt!  The MRO is an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Khan (5)
The MRO is among the top Sergeants on the team and the top analyst within the team.  Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency and professional development of his peers and subordinates.  Technically proficient and extraordinarily resourceful, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the most difficult and challenging assignments.  The MRO is one of the most intelligent and resourceful instructors I have ever observed.  A force multiplier for any commander.   A must for promotion and retention.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate for recruiting duty as well as the warrant officer program.  


Sosnoski (4)
Concur with RS.  A consistent and thorough NCO, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of Marines within the intelligence section.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his reliability and attention to detail.  Physically fit, the MRO would be an excellent candidate for MARSOC and will bring a unique blend of analytic tradecraft and experience to the tactical edge. Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Sgt Orman (4)
Concur with RS.  A consistent and thorough NCO, the MRO can be counted on to accomplish the mission.  Repeatedly demonstrated his outstanding attention to detail and thoroughness.  The MRO demonstrated a great deal of flexibility during the reporting period, earning the trust of his chain of command with his reliability and work ethic.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend Sergeant’s Course. Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.




Comparative Assessment (SSgt)
7
6           2
5	9
4 	15
3	5
2	2
1
SSgt Anderson (4)
Concur with the RS.  Dedicated to his Marines, the MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility, both within his Platoon and throughout the rest of the unit. During a period of high Officer and SNCO turnover, the MRO has ably filled several billets across the Detachment.  Leading by example, the impact that he has made can be seen in the Marines of his Platoon. The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend the Advanced Course.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Williams (3)
Concur with RS. Diligent and thorough, the MRO has provided stability and continuity
for the Wire Platoon during a period of high operational tempo, working behind the
scenes to ensure mission accomplishment. The MRO would be an excellent candidate to
attend the Staff Academy. The MRO is ready for new challenges. Retain and promote with
peers.
SSgt Douglas (4)
Concur with the RS.  Dependable, motivated and hard working, the MRO has used his extremely valuable experience as a mechanic, instructing his Marines to enhance the readiness of Detachment B’s motor transport maintenance section.  His knowledge and experience as a Motor Transport Operations Chief resulted in the safe movement of Marines over 1000 miles spread between 4 exercises with zero problems or issues.  In addition, he worked to improve the operational planning ability of the Officers and SNCOs throughout Detachment B.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend the Staff Academy.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Novak (NOB)
The MRO has taken full responsibility for his actions resulting in his DUI conviction.  In the short duration that the MRO has been a part of Detachment B, his level of performance has not been affected by his legal matters.  The MRO has quickly earned the trust and confidence of his chain of command has he completed his Cisco Certified Network Associates (CCNA) Certification and has been selected to serve as the SNCO for an outlying site during an upcoming exercise.  The MRO has displayed continued hard work, dedication, and a desire to see his Marines succeed and avoid his mistake.  I firmly believe that this Marine has taken ownership of his actions, accepted the consequences, and will positively impact the success of Detachment B.  I look forward to continuing to serve with this Marine.
SSgt Anderson (4) 2nd fitrep on this Marine.
The MRO continued his solid performance throughout this reporting period.  Working with a new platoon OIC, the MRO provided continuity, stability, and mentorship both to his Marines and the new Lieutenant.   The example set by the MRO can be seen in the dedication and professionalism of his Marines.  The MRO would be an excellent candidate to attend the Advanced Course.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine. 
SSgt Lester (4)
Concur with the RS.  Highly intelligent, thoughtful, and resourceful, the MRO has worked to enhance the maintenance readiness of the detachment by patiently instructing, coordinating, and supervising the maintenance process.  An excellent mentor, the MRO has worked closely with the junior officers, SNCOs, and maintenance NCOs to instill a proactive mindset about equipment maintenance.  A force multiplier, the MRO is the type of Marine who makes everyone around him better.    The MRO is recommended for a special duty assignment such as drill instructor duty.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Wilson (5)
Concur with the RS.  Flexible and resourceful, the MRO is a force multiplier for the command.  The MRO has overhauled the vehicle licensing program, inspected all of Detachment B’s rolling stock and worked with the operators to improve the thoroughness of the weekly motor stables.   The MRO is an engaged leader and mentor who has greatly contributed to the development of the NCOs and junior Marines in the Detachment.
SSgt Price (4)
Concur with the RS.  Steady, proficient, and reliable, the MRO has used his experience to help lead, mentor and guide the NCOs of Transmissions Platoon.  Always decisive, the MRO can be counted upon to provide timely and insightful guidance to the Detachment leadership.  The MRO has been very successful in ensuring the mission readiness of his Marines and all of the critical low density communications equipment under his charge during a high tempo period of operations for Detachment B.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Williams (3)
A dedicated mentor, the MRO is sought out by her Marines for her advice and guidance.   Diligent, steady, and thorough, the MRO has improved the administrative readiness of the wire platoon as well as ensuring the mission readiness of the Marines and wire equipment.  Her templates for maintenance documentation have been adopted by other sections within the Detachment.  Serving as the wire chief during MISTEX 1-13, the MRO provided steady leadership and direction to her Marines, ensuring the timely installation of all telephone services to users.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Novak (4)
Steady, proficient, and reliable, the MRO has demonstrated a tireless work ethic as he has worked to ensure the mission readiness of the Marines and data equipment.  The MRO has greatly improved the maintenance readiness of the Data Platoon.  Selected by the detachment leadership to serve as the 29 Palms site chief during MISTEX 1-13, the MRO displayed his leadership, communications planning skills, and technical proficiency.  Additionally he displayed his ingenuity as he created a unique software solution to capture and multicast UAS feeds throughout the network.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Scorintino (3)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a diligent, professional, and proficient Marine who has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B and MWCS-38.  Technically proficient, the MRO successfully served as the Communications Chief during a T-AVB Communications Exercise.   Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Deleon (4)
Concur with the RS.  A high energy, enthusiastic leader, the MRO can be trusted to lead his Marines in both garrison and field environments.  Technically competent, the MRO has honed the proficiency of his Marines by conducting a series of garrison training exercises.  As a testament to his leadership, his Marines can always be found working on their equipment.  Of note, the MRO earned his Security+ certification during this reporting period.  The MRO has worked to ensure the mission readiness of his Marines and wire equipment.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Austin (4)
Concur with the RS.  Diligent and thorough, the MRO has worked to enhance the mission readiness of the Marines in Detachment B.  Demonstrating her attention to detail, she has overhauled most of the administrative programs throughout the detachment, ensuring that detachment leadership is closely tracking on any issues affecting the medical and administrative readiness of the Marines.  A self-starter, able to operate off of Commander’s Intent, the MRO is a force multiplier for the detachment.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Soto (3) (Will have to wait on this one)
Concur with the RS.  Steady, proficient, and reliable, the MRO has used his experience to help lead, mentor and guide the Marines of the MEU Communications Detachment.  The MRO has been very successful in ensuring the mission readiness of his Marines by actively obtaining training opportunities for every MOS under his charge. Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine. Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.  Recommend for special duty assignments such as the drill field or recruiting duty.
SSgt Wilson (CH, Det 1stSgt / end of reporting)
Concur with the RS.  A poised, flexible and dynamic leader, the MRO provided outstanding leadership and mentorship to Marines across Detachment B.  The MRO easily stepped into the leadership gaps in the detachment caused by the deployment of the Detachment leadership because of his familiarity with the SNCOs and Marines in the Detachment, leading the Marines with a maturity not often found in junior SNCOs. Well rounded, the MRO is proficient inside his MOS, excellent at administrative tasks, and  dedicated to lifelong learning.  A must promote at the first opportunity; the MRO is ready for GySgt!  
SSgt Price (Deployment TR) 4 (2nd time)
Concur with the RS.  Dedicated to his Marines, the MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment during a demanding deployment by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility, both within his Platoon and throughout the rest of the unit.  The MRO can be relied upon to provide accurate and timely feedback to platoon and detachment leadership.  Leading by example, the impact that he has made can be seen in the Marines of his Platoon. The MRO would do well as an instructor at MCCES or Communications Officer School.  Retain, promote, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Lester (4) (2nd fitrep)
Concur with the RS.  Intelligent and resourceful, the MRO was responsible for the organization and improvement of the maintenance management process for all of the communications equipment in support of MAG-50.  His hard work and ingenuity was pivotal in decreasing maintenance lead times and ensuring that all commodities were in line with the Marine Corps best practices.  The MRO works well with officers, other SNCOs, and NCOs and served as a force multiplier for the detachment.  The MRO is recommended for a special duty assignment such as drill instructor duty or recruiting duty.  Retain, promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine. 
SSgt Lee (5 ) TR to Det A
Intelligent and dedicated to the art and science of communications, the MRO quickly became an integral part of Detachment B during a high tempo deployment.  The MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of the detachment by his leadership, maturity, and MOS proficiency, both within his Platoon and throughout the rest of the unit. The MRO can be relied upon to provide accurate and timely feedback to platoon and detachment leadership.  The impact that he has made can be seen in the actions and character of the Marines of his Platoon.  Retain and promote with peers.
SSgt Austin (4) TR to MACG FWD OEF Deployment
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is patient, dedicated, and thorough.  An excellent instructor, she has done an excellent job developing the Detachment’s administrative and training clerks.  Proficient across the realm of administrative reporting, tasks, and procedures, she has greatly enhanced the personnel readiness of the Marines of Detachment B.  Operates well off of Commander’s Intent.  The MRO works well with officers, other SNCOs, and NCOs and served as a force multiplier for the detachment.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Novak (5) CH
The MRO serves as a force multiplier for Detachment B, making vital contributions by his leadership, initiative, maturity, and proficiency.  The MRO is the most technically proficient 0659 SSgt whom I have served with in 10 years in the Marine Corps.  Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency, leadership and flexibility in his subordinates.   Under his leadership and supervision, his platoon was able to seamlessly overhaul an existing network and make numerous network improvements during a demanding deployment.  A must promote, retain at all costs.  
SSgt Deleon (5) 
The MRO serves as a force multiplier for Detachment B, making vital contributions by his leadership, initiative, maturity, and proficiency.  An enthusiastic leader and dedicated to mission accomplishment, he impacted the entire detachment with his enthusiasm.  His leadership, resourcefulness, and planning ability were pivotal as his platoon was able to seamlessly overhaul an existing telephony network and make numerous network improvements during a demanding deployment utilizing the latest in commercial communications solutions.  A must promote, retain at all costs. 
SSgt Flynn (2)
The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Data Platoon and Detachment B.   
SSgt Sciorinto (3)
Concur with the RS.  Concur with the RS.  The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  The MRO is a diligent, professional, and proficient Marine who has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B and MWCS-38 during a demanding deployment.  Selected to serve as the  Equal Opportunity Officer for MWCS-38.
SSgt Deleon (5)
The MRO is a highly intelligent leader who is devoted to mission accomplishment and developing his Marines.  An excellent blend of leadership and technical excellence.  The MRO has been critical to the leadership development of the NCOs in Wire Platoon.  He played a key role in the stability and continuity of wire platoon during a leadership change.  Physically fit.  The MRO has the leadership ability and technical proficiency to be an outstanding Warrant Officer.  A must for promotion, consideration for Warrant Officer and retention.  
SSgt Flynn (2)
The MRO can be relied upon to complete assigned tasks.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Data Platoon and Detachment B.   
SSgt Novak (5) End of Active Service Fitrep
An excellent communications planner and troubleshooter, easily exceeds his peers in his MOS, the MRO’s leadership and technical proficiency has been critical to the success of Detachment B during a series of demanding exercises.  Highly resourceful, the MRO develops well thought out, cohesive solutions to ensure mission accomplishment.  Highly proficient across the realm of networking and data communications.  The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.  I would not hesitate to serve with this Marine again.
SSgt Wild
Concur with the RS.  Demonstrating her attention to detail, she has created a detailed equipment readiness tracker to assist in maintain accountability and the mission readiness of the largest supply account in the MARFOR.  A self-starter, the MRO can operate off of Commander’s Intent and handle complex tasks across the command independently.  The MRO will be successful as she transitions out of the Marine Corps.  I would not hesitate to serve with this Marine again and recommend that that she be considered for transition into the SMCR.  The MRO would make an outstanding warrant officer.
The MRO has been very successful in ensuring the mission readiness of his Marines and all of the critical low density communications equipment under his charge during a high tempo period of operations for Detachment B.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
SSgt Merida (6)
The MRO serves as a force multiplier for the team and national task force, making vital contributions by his leadership, initiative, maturity, proficiency, and tradecraft.  An enthusiastic leader and dedicated to mission accomplishment, he impacted the entire task force with his skillsets and relationship with other elements of the intelligence community.  His leadership, resourcefulness, and planning ability were pivotal to establishing a new operational line of effort for the task force.  The MRO will be successful as he transitions out of the Marine Corps.  I would not hesitate to serve with this Marine again and recommend that that he be considered for transition into the SMCR.  The MRO would make an outstanding warrant officer.
SSgt Boudy (6) 
The MRO serves as a force multiplier for the team and national task force, making vital contributions by his leadership, initiative, maturity, proficiency, and tradecraft.   A self-starter, the MRO can operate from Commander’s Intent and handle complex tasks across the team independently.  The MRO already operates with the drive and professionalism of a seasoned GySgt.  Retain at all costs, continue to place in the most demanding positions, and continue to promote at the first opportunity.  The MRO would make an outstanding warrant officer. 
 
SSgt Woolen (6)  
Highly intelligent and aggressive, the MRO has single handly developed and implemented a training environment that is pivotal to the long-term success of the team.  A self-starter, the MRO can operate from Commander’s Intent and handle the toughest tasks across the team independently.  Retain at all costs, continue to place in the most demanding positions, and continue to promote at the first opportunity.  The MRO would make an outstanding warrant officer. 
 
SSgt Mueller (5) 
An experienced and poised analyst, the MRO has repeatedly contributed to the tactical and operational success of the team during a period of high operational tempo supporting the security of the 2020 election cycle.  An excellent mentor, the MRO has worked closely with the junior officers, SNCOs, to develop and enhance operational courses of action as well as provide critical and timely feedback, A force multiplier, the MRO is the type of Marine who makes everyone around him better.   Retain at all costs, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine. 
 
SSgt Berkowitz (5) 
Concur with the RS.  Highly intelligent and resourceful, the MRO was selected to lead the analytical effort supporting an entire line of effort.   The MRO completed an exceedingly difficult qualification pipeline and is now pursuing advanced qualifications.  These attributes highlight the long term potential for the MRO as a standout in the cyberspace occupational field and will continue to be a force multiplier for any commander in cyberspace.  Physically fit.  Retain and continue to place in the most demanding positions. 
 
SSgt Aragon (4) 
Concur with the RS.  The MRO was hand selected to enter one of the most difficult training pipelines for Marines within cyberspace.  The MRO has aggressively moved out to complete all of the educational prerequisites as well a large percentage of his joint qualification requirement.  An excellent communicator and writer, the MRO has demonstrated his potential to continue to be a force multiplier for any commander in cyberspace.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine. 

SSgt Knapic (4) 
Concur with the RS.  Diligent and disciplined, the MRO has demonstrated his ability to excel during a complex and highly technical qualification process.  Throughput this process, he has demonstrated initiative by creating practice environments for use by the entire team that Marines can leverage for success within the training pipeline.  The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  The MRO is a diligent, professional, and proficient Marine who has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the team.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine. 
SSgt Mahlerbe (4) 
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  An experienced mentor, the MRO works to keep the Marines in a demanding qualfiication pipeline on track with his knowledge and tradecraft.  The MRO is a diligent, professional, and proficient Marine who has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the team.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine. 

SSgt Liddell (4) 
Concur with the RS.  An experienced cyberspace operator, the MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the team and the MARFOR during this reporting period.  His versatility and qualifications make him highly sought after and he was just selected to begin the most rigorous cyberspace training pipeline available to Marines.  The MRO has taken on opportunities to expand his horizons inside and outside of his MOS.  The MRO is a diligent, professional, and proficient Marine who has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the team.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.

SSgt Berkowitz (5)  - Need to add
Concur with the RS.  Highly intelligent and resourceful, the MRO was selected to lead the analytical effort supporting an entire line of effort.   The MRO completed an exceedingly difficult qualification pipeline and is now pursuing advanced qualifications.  These attributes highlight the long term potential for the MRO as a standout in the cyberspace occupational field and will continue to be a force multiplier for any commander in cyberspace.  Physically fit.  Retain and continue to place in the most demanding positions.
The MRO was hand selected for independent duty as part of the 31st MEU Cyber Mission Element as a testament to his versatility, aggressiveness, proficiency, communication skills, and experiences supporting full spectrum cyberspace operations.  Eager to learn and capitalize on opportunities to develop his tradecraft and impact the mission.  The MRO continues to be recognized as a standout who will make an impact for years to come in the cyber community.  Physically fit, retain at all costs and continue to place in the most demanding positions.




Comparative Assessment (GySgts)


8
7
6	6	
5    	12	
4	5	
3     	2	
2	1
1	
GySgt York (6)
Concur with the RS.  A consummate professional, the MRO is dedicated to his craft and his Marines.  An excellent communications planner and troubleshooter, the MRO has been critical to the success of Detachment B.  An outstanding leader and engaged mentor, the MRO’s NCOs have grown tremendously under his tutelage.  Dedicated to lifelong learning.  A must promote at the first opportunity; the MRO is ready for MSgt!  This Marine is also an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Physically Fit. Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
Gy Dixon (5)
Concur with the RS.  A poised and mature leader, the MRO provides outstanding leadership and mentorship to the Marines of Transmissions Platoon.   The MRO can be relied upon to develop cohesive, well thought out solutions and provide insight to leaders at all levels of the Squadron.   The definition of a force multiplier, the MRO is the type of Marine who makes everyone around him better.  The MRO will make an outstanding 1stSgt.  Promote at the first opportunity, retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
GySgt York (6) TD fitrep for Comm Chiefs Course
Concur with the RS.  The MRO continued to enhance his reputation as a consummate professional during this reporting period.   What separates him from his peers is his ability to design, analyze and manage complex communications architectures which typically require the aptitude and experience of a seasoned MSgt in his MOS.  A force multiplier for any commander, the MRO’s ability to take "Commander's Intent" and transform it into execution is remarkable. Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency, leadership and professional development in his subordinates.  A must promote at the first opportunity; the MRO is ready for MSgt!  This Marine is also an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Physically Fit. Retain at all costs and continue to challenge this Marine!
GySgt  Melo TR (3)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment by her leadership, maturity, and flexibility, both within the Platoon and throughout the rest of the Detachment.  The MRO is an engaged leader and mentor who has greatly contributed to the development of the NCOs and junior Marines in the data platoon.  As a senior enlisted advisor, the MRO provided sound guidance and advice to the Marines of the platoon as well as leadership of the Detachment during a period of high Officer and SNCO turnover.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
GySgt Burton (2)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B by his flexibility and maturity.  Both in his role as a data chief and as he filled the role of the Detachment Gunnery Sergeant, the MRO always could be counted on to accomplish the mission and take care of his Marines.
Gy Burton
Dedicated to his Marines, the MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility, both within his Platoon and throughout the rest of the unit. During a period of high Officer and SNCO turnover, the MRO has ably filled several billets across the Detachment.  
Gysgt Webb (5)
Dedicated to his Marines, the MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility, both within his Platoon and throughout the rest of the unit.  An engaged mentor, the MRO has quickly gained the trust of his Marines, allowing him to provide timely advice and guidance to the Marines and the command as well as improving communications up and down the chain of command.  Technically proficient across the realm of communications, the MRO has a knowledge base beyond most of his peers and will make an outstanding MSgt.  Physically fit.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
GySgt Fowler (6)
A consummate professional as well as   A charismatic leader, the MRO gives 110% to Marines of all ranks in the Detachment no matter what the time or the situation.  Relentlessly embodies all of the Marine Corps Core Values.  A force multiplier for any commander, the MRO’s ability to take "Commander's Intent" and transform it into execution is remarkable. Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency, leadership and professional development in his subordinates, inspiring them to be the best section in the Detachment.  Hand selected to serve as the Detachment 1stSgt.  Physically fit.  A must promote at the first opportunity; the MRO will make an outstanding 1stSgt!   
GySgt Stephens (5)
The MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B by his leadership, maturity, and technical proficiency, both within his section and throughout the rest of the MAG-50.  An engaged mentor, the MRO's Marines have grown both as adaptable and innovative troubleshooters and also as leaders.  Highly flexible and technically proficient across the spectrum of communications and electronics maintenance, the MRO has a knowledge base beyond most of his peers; the MRO will make an outstanding MSgt.  Promote ahead of peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
GySgt Duvall (5)
An excellent communications planner and troubleshooter, easily exceeds his peers in the Technical Control MOS, the MRO’s leadership and technical proficiency has been critical to the success of Detachment B during this deployment.  Highly resourceful, the MRO develops well thought out, cohesive solutions to ensure mission accomplishment.  Highly proficient across the realm of communications, the MRO is best suited for MSgt.  The MRO is also an outstanding candidate for selection as a Warrant Officer.  A must for retention, promote ahead of peers! 
GySgt York (6) 3d Fitrep
Leading from the front and driven by mission accomplishment, the MRO embodies the whole Marine concept.   Focused on subordinate development and growth, the MRO has empowered a confident and capable team of NCOs and Marines who have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to enable communications under any circumstances.  Outstanding communications planner, well versed in every aspect of radio communication systems.  A must promote at the first opportunity; the MRO is ready for MSgt!  This Marine is also an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Physically Fit. Retain at all costs.
GySgt York (6) 4th Fitrep
A consummate professional who excels in every aspect as a Marine.  Outstanding leader, mentor, and communications planner.  The MRO has imbued his Marines with a confidence and élan not often found in communications units.  Under his leadership, his NCOs and Marines have exhibited continuous growth and development.  Well versed in every aspect of tactical communications, communications maintenance, and platoon administration.  A must promote at the first opportunity; the MRO is ready for MSgt!  This Marine is also an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Physically Fit. Retain at all costs.
GySgt Duvall (5) (2nd Fitrep)
Highly resourceful, the MRO develops well thought out, cohesive solutions to ensure mission accomplishment.   What separates him from his peers is his ability to design, analyze and manage complex communications architectures which typically require the aptitude and experience of a seasoned MSgt in his MOS.  A force multiplier for any commander, the MRO’s ability to take "Commander's Intent" and transform it into execution is remarkable. Daily the MRO fosters MOS proficiency and professional development in his subordinates.  A must promote at the first opportunity; the MRO is ready for MSgt!  This Marine will be an outstanding Warrant Officer.
GySgt Rodriguez (4) TD to Advanced Course
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility, both within wire platoon and throughout the rest of Detachment B.  The MRO is an engaged leader who has greatly contributed to the development of the NCOs and junior Marines in wire platoon.  Technically proficient.  As a senior enlisted advisor, the MRO provided sound guidance and advice to the Marines of the platoon as well as leadership of the Detachment during a period of high Officer and SNCO turnover.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
Gy Morton (4)
Dedicated to his Marines, the MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment by his leadership, proficiency, maturity, and flexibility, both within his Platoon and throughout the rest of the unit.  The MRO has quickly gained the trust of his Marines, allowing him to provide timely advice and guidance to the Marines and the command as well as improving communications up and down the chain of command.  His leadership and mentorship have been critical to developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept.    Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
Gy Rod (4) Final TR
Dedicated to his Marines, the MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of the Detachment by his leadership, proficiency, maturity, and flexibility, both within wire platoon and throughout the rest of the unit.  The MRO provides timely advice and guidance to the Marines and the command as well as improving communications up and down the chain of command.  His leadership and mentorship have been critical to developing an outstanding group of junior Marines who excel at the Whole Marine Concept.  The MRO possesses all of the intangibles and has the drive to be an outstanding 1stSgt of Marines.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.

Gy Webb (5)
Calm under pressure and focused on the Marines, the MRO has been a force multiplier for Detachment B.  An excellent mentor for NCOs, junior Marines as well as junior officers, the MRO has ensured the continued development of Marines throughout Detachment B.  The MRO's Marines have grown both as adaptable and innovative troubleshooters and also as leaders in their own right.  Highly flexible and technically proficient across the spectrum of communications and electronics maintenance, the MRO has a knowledge base beyond most of his peers; the MRO will make an outstanding MSgt.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.
GySgt Payne
MRO has made vital contributions to the mission accomplishment of the command by his leadership, proficiency, and flexibility, both within the G-6 and throughout the rest of the staff.  The MRO has provided timely advice and guidance the command regarding cybersecurity policy, cryptographic key management, and authorization to operate processes both for the National Security Agency and the Marine Corps.  The MRO has improved communications up and down the chain of command, improving the speed and responsiveness of the cybersecurity section.  Promote with peers and continue to challenge this Marine.

GySgt Courtney (6)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO is a consummate professional and leader who is a force multiplier for the team.  The MRO possesses an instinctual understanding of commander’s intent and mission accomplishment. The MRO is a confident, engaged leader who has greatly contributed to the development of the Officers, SNCOs and Marines within the team. Ready for the rank of Master Sergeant.   Well versed in the aspects of signals intelligence and cyberspace operations.  A must promote at the first opportunity; the MRO is ready for MSgt!  This Marine is also an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Physically Fit. Retain at all costs.
GySgt Artel (5)
A consummate professional and leader, the MRO is the type of Marine and mentor who raises the performance of everyone around him.  The MRO is a confident, engaged leader who has greatly contributed to the development of the Officers, SNCOs and Marines within the team and cyberspace community across the services.  The MRO possesses all the intangibles to be an outstanding Master Sergeant within a highly technical field and will continue to positively impact a new generation of Marines. A must promote at the first opportunity.  This Marine is also an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Physically Fit. Retain at all costs.
GySgt Leva (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the team by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility.  Technically proficient and intellectually curious.  A self-starter, the MRO can operate off Commander’s Intent and handle complex tasks across the team independently. As a senior enlisted advisor and analyst, the MRO provided sound guidance and advice to the Marines as well as leadership of the team during a period of high Officer turnover.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.

GySgt Bullard (5)
Concur with the RS. Consummate professional.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the team by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility.  Proficient over a wide range of MOS and administrative skills, the MRO has been a key contributor to the success of the team and entire task force.  As a senior enlisted advisor and operator, the MRO provided sound guidance and advice to the Marines as well as leadership of the team during a period of high Officer turnover.  The MRO is ready for MSgt!  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
GySgt Hennessy (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has repeatedly displayed the ability to fuse intelligence products and requirements across multiple different sources.  Calm and collected, the MRO is a proven mentor and leader who has continued to ensure that his Marines advance through demanding training pipelines and integrate into a complex highly technical field.  MRO has empowered a confident and capable team of NCOs.   Outstanding writer.   Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.
GySgt Procell
Calm and collected, the MRO is a proven mentor and leader who has continued to ensure that his Marines advance through demanding training pipelines and integrate into a complex highly technical field.  MRO has empowered a confident and capable team of Marine NCOs and junior soldiers.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the team by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility.  These skills will serve him in good stead along with his wealth of experience within the signals intelligence community as he embarks on his career as a warrant officer.  
The MRO provides timely advice and guidance to the Marines and the command as well as improving communications up and down the chain of command.

Artel (5)
The MRO continued his strong performance during this reporting period.   A consummate professional, the MRO is an aggressive technically, tactically proficient leader of Marines.  He has excelled within a demanding training pipeline that sees more failures than successes.  A tribute to his character and selflessness, he continues to mentor others as they progress through the pipeline.  The MRO ably balances both aspects to ensure mission accomplishment.  Ready now for MSgt, where his blend of technical expertise and leadership will mold future SNCOs and NCOs within the cyberspace occupational field.   A must promote at the first opportunity.  This Marine is also an excellent candidate for the Warrant Officer Program.  Physically Fit. Retain at all costs.
Bullard (5)
The MRO has continued his strong performance as a senior enlisted advisor and technical subject matter expert – this combination is not easily replicated by other SNCOs within the cyberspace occupational field.  During this reporting period, he assumed the role of the senior enlisted leader for a joint task force.  His calm, mature, collected approach has been vital to the organization’s performance as we navigated COVID mitigations and reporting to ensuring that four subordinate organizations were tracking requirements.  The MRO has played a pivotal role in testing new capabilities to meet task force operational requirements.  Ready for the rank of MSgt! the MRO is highly recommended for promotion at the first opportunity.
Leva (5)
The MRO continued his strong performance during this reporting period and completed his training pipeline during this reporting period and made an immediate impact on the team and the task force.  He has continued to push through a demanding qualification pipeline while providing operational and analytical capacity to the task force.   Highly analytical, creative, and levelheaded the MRO continues to impress and will make an outstanding MSgt!  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.


MSgts
8
7	
6	
5	
4 
3	1
2	
1	
MSgt Gibson (3)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of Detachment B by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility, both within radio platoon and throughout the rest of Detachment B.  Technically proficient.  As a senior enlisted advisor, the MRO provided sound guidance and advice to the Marines of the platoon as well as leadership of the Detachment during a period of high Officer and SNCO turnover.  The MRO has served with honor and will be successful as he completes his transition from the Marine Corps into the civilian sector.


MSgt Barnes (4)
Concur with the RS.  The MRO has contributed to the mission accomplishment of the team by his leadership, maturity, and flexibility.  Technically proficient and calm under pressure.  The MRO provided sound guidance and advice to the Marines as well as leadership of the team during a period of high Officer and SNCO turnover.  Retain, promote with peers, and continue to challenge this Marine.

