I continue to serve because I have a desire lead marines in real cyberspace missions that have an impact on society. The people I work with are smart, professional, and team players. The culture of Marines that I have encountered in this occupational field have an attitude of professionalism and ingenuity that extends beyond the end of the workday.  They enjoy cerebral work and spend their free time honing their keyboard skills in order to make a bigger personal impact.

Additionally, I take pride in the impact and effect that my contributions provide to the world at large. This is not a feeling I have maintained over the course of my career thus far, rather it is a new driving factor I have only experienced as a member of this National Mission Team. This team is separate and distinct from my previous Marine Corps experiences, as the team’s efforts and executions provide a real impact. Because of this, I have almost never left at the end of the day feeling as though my time has been wasted. 

This skill field allows Marines to consistently receive meaningful training that has a direct impact on their current mission. Continuing to serve means that I can develop myself in a way that makes me more applicable in this field if/when I choose to leave the service. However, the civilian world can never equal the excitement of working with my NSA/CYBERCOM counterparts to solve the hard problems facing the nation.

I continue to serve primarily due to the cooperative work environment that many, but not the majority, of Marine Corps units and teams provide. I derive enjoyment in my profession by working with a set of like-minded individuals that maintain the ability to plan and execute in a direct, aggressive, and devoted fashion toward a common goal – all while eschewing many of the traditional “corporate” considerations that can delay or destroy a team’s effort. Essentially, Marines provide an environment where everyone can swallow their personal pride and feelings for the sake of the mission – reserving time to resolve those issues when the operational tempo can permit it. This is directly contrasted with my experiences in “traditional” units, as the continual onslaught of scripted exercises, lack of effective training, unrealistic requirements, and the regular failure of administration can effectively destroy one’s sense of self-worth and idea of intrinsic value. This is especially true of first-term Marines (officer and enlisted alike), having just committed 4-8 years of their life to a false sense of importance levied by recruiting propaganda.

While different from perhaps the FMF, the culture of Marines here remains relentless and dedicated. People have an attitude of professionalism and ingenuity, and a sense of humor, and enjoy challenge.

I still have a desire to serve my country in some capacity. Being at Fort Meade also helps as I appreciate the overall environment the NSA side of Fort Meade cultivates, the mission sets, and the knowledge that we’re on the “front line” of the current fight in cyberspace.

Fulfilment of a unique job, that would be difficult to find elsewhere
Ability to continue to work with a small subset of highly intelligent, skilled, and motivated individuals

