The organization as it stands now, appears to be burdened with an ever-increasing lack of fundamental trust at almost every level of leadership. Senior leaders continue to increase the level of micromanagement expected at each subsequent level within their scope – rather than consenting to a level of trust within their responsible echelons of command and staff. 

This sentiment is the direct result of senior leaders (i.e. company command and above) that refuse to, or are unable to, maintain their technical proficiency – thus they are unable to communicate, assess, or understand the real level of risk within a plan. This refusal and inability is caused by the organization’s refusal to effectively evaluate an individual’s technical prowess in concert with their leadership and communication abilities, and opting to continually promote those which have minimal understanding of the plans and operations for which they are responsible for – leading to metrics, reports, and assessments that are essentially meaningless and irrelevant, but end up being the foundation upon which my value to the organization is evaluated and understood. 

The personal sacrifices I make, in my off-duty time, to become a technical expert are not valued organizationally. I believe that this sentiment is the direct result of senior leaders that refuse to, or are unable to, maintain their technical proficiency – thus they are unable to communicate, assess, or understand the real level of risk within a plan. This refusal and inability is caused by the organization’s refusal to effectively evaluate an individual’s technical prowess in concert with their leadership and communication abilities. Opting instead to continually promote those possessing a minimal understanding of the plans and operations for which they are responsible. This leads to metrics, reports, and assessments that are essentially meaningless and irrelevant, but still end up being the foundation upon which my value to the organization is evaluated and understood. Lack of technically proficient leadership also leads to questionable organizational employment structures. For instance: “bringing cyber to the fleet” by sending our most senior Captains to FMF billets. A technical leader would understand that this is a nonsensical employment of capabilities that actually robs the service of efficacy. That Officer will NEVER employ the technical skills they learned here in the FMF. The Marines that serve in this filed want to serve in the most technical roles. If you arbitrarily remove them from those roles you will lose them.

The need to continuously promote and obtain billets so you can “get command someday” is by far the most obscene requirement to levy upon the service. We’re not all going to be commanders, it’s not possible. By forcing us all down the path of command, you essentially create a hostile employment environment where your highly skilled Marines (with no desire to command) simply prepare themselves to take their skills to a financially lucrative job.  

The Marine Corps clearly grasps the concept of paying more for special skills. It’s also quite clear that concept only extends to things that fly. Our sister services have created pay incentives (both Officer and Enlisted) for their skilled cyber operators. It’s professionally embarrassing that there’s no promulgated plan to do this for the Marine Corps.

If a Marine puts forth a wealth of effort and continuously makes a measurable impact, at great personal cost to themselves, their return on equity is being arbitrarily assigned to a geo-location of zero interest to them to perform a role that has zero impact both personally and professionally. This continuously leads our most technical Marines feeling deposed and undervalued, ultimately leading to the path of least resistance in the civilian job market.

For example: originally, Marines assigned to this unit were done so with the understanding that the tour of duty would encompass 4 years, as opposed to the traditional 3 year tour. This was a smart decision, as the training, requirements, and level of experience necessary to be effective would likely require an entire year – resulting in two to three years of effective employment. Now, an officer will execute a billet for 12-18 months before being rotated to another position within the command. This restricts an individual’s effective employment in a highly technical environment from 3 years in one position to less than 6 months in each position. This movement decision is also conducted behind closed doors, and never involves the Marine. Though a seemingly bespoke example, it’s actually quite representational of the manning landscape within the Marine Corps. All the major elements are there: lack of personal control, no regard to personal technical ability, no recourse for poor placement, etc. Marines don’t want to be treated as though they’re just a warm body to fill a billet on a spreadsheet.

Failure to attain reasonable work/life balance. From my observation, our team has an important mission and a drive and purpose that makes long hours, nights, and weekends worth it. I am thankful to be part of a unit that works hard towards a meaningful end. In all of my assignments so far, though, the climate and tendency towards work have caused burnout and neglect of my personal life, goals, friends, family, etc. Many jobs on the outside have clearer boundaries and more flexibility on total working hours and scheduling, and people are often compensated for overtime – these factor into my calculus of staying in vs. getting out. I can imagine many potential future billets I may hold, such as on the staff or in the DCO-IDM, that would not have the same level of purpose or meaning to justify the demanding schedule from a personal perspective.

Lack of personal freedom to travel. I enjoy travelling, domestically and abroad, and have found that the implementation of liberty boundaries, as well as requirements for international travel, are a limit on my personal freedom. I understand these are policies that prevent primarily junior Marines from making bad judgment calls, but they are unnecessary for SNCOs and officers, and waste both work and off-hours in the case of most international travel paperwork.

Requirement to PCS. As outlined in the Talent Management document, arbitrarily forcing PCS is often unnecessary, expensive, and can decrease cohesion. With specific regard to the cyber occupational field, it can also be catastrophic to readiness, where workrole training occupies well over half of one’s time on station and directly inhibits the individual’s ability to contribute to the team, and the team from accomplishing the mission.

The strict ladder, “up or out”, and key billet rotation that forces officers to move through many different billets in a short amount of time to meet the required wickets at each grade.  The strict format and constant movement encourages mediocrity among the officer corps where officers are expected to know just enough to get by in any specific field.  

The Marine Corps struggles to find its’ place in cyberspace.  This has caused issues with the employment or lack of employment of teams OPCON to MFCC.  The current solution of adding a MCCOB in the chain of command does not solve the problem and potentially will exacerbate it as the battalion is not prepared to develop operational planning expertise to employ the teams that are OPCON to it.

The lack of technical skill possessed by the median Marine. Skill distribution is representative of a Pareto distribution vice a Bell Curve
Grossly uncompetitive pay compared to private sector equivalent 
Requirement to PCS after a short time 
No guarantee to perform a technical work role for longer than one duty station/at all
Generalist mentality among the Officer Corps vice technical experts at their respective craft
Cyber Commands evident Centralized Command & Centralized Control philosophy 
Cyber Command’s technological skill gap juxtaposed to the Cyber Security Community 
The reliant on rank to determine one’s value vice a pure meritocracy
Forced to follow preset career path with holding command as the only end state opposed to being able to remain in a technical role.
The requirement of attending PME courses that do not align to Cyber, or hold job relevance 
The lack of desire by most Officers to improve their technical abilities 
Arbitrary requirements levied upon Operation Units by Administrative Commands, to the point of interference of Mission Accomplishment 
The desire to “Bring Cyber to the Fleet” and attach Cyber Units to Ground Elements without any ability for those units to serve a technical mission vice allowing Operational Units to continue to accomplish the National Mission from Ft. Meade.
