
I appreciated that they recognized that there was a problem with retention and were willing to take unique steps to address them. The few things that stood out were the recognition of how detrimental a PCS cycle could be to a unit, alternate career paths for officers who wanted to stay on a certain track, and the option of a lateral move for those outside of the military or those who left to come back into certain positions if they applied for it. I think that incorporating a talent marketplace for assignments where officers would apply for positions and conduct interviews is a big step in the right direction. To that end, providing Marines the Latitude to exit the service and return as a lateral entry would allow for the recruitment of top talent. Leaving the service shouldn’t be a bridge you can never re-cross.

It was refreshing to read that there is finally a desire, from the highest ranks, to change long standing policies that have outlived their utility. The efforts to modernize unit-level recruitment and the assessment of individually targeted talents is by far the largest value to this current draft. In the civilian world, I can be employed by one organization, and if my interests or desires change over time, I can focus efforts toward the goal of a new position at another organization that meets my desires. This is not a current reality in the organization – as my placement is decided and often changed without any respect to what value I would provide and whether that value is maximized for the organization.

It's interesting they had a focus on “improving physical fitness”. We need a focus on teaching Marines how to PT and recover correctly at an early age. This could help retention, both from injury prevention and physical health stand point. The Marine Corps should have certified civilian trainers, fitness instructors, and nutritional specialists, similar to what the Air Force does. Tailored physical fitness and nutrition plans would go a long way toward improving the quality of the Marine Corps.

Maturity of the force: The biological concerns concerning younger Marines aside is potentially a leadership problem. That being said, it would be interesting to see the effect on the service if the minimum age was raised to 21 and the minimum pay were doubled. The recruitment pool would be radically different. 

A focused process for Marines to review their leadership is a nice change of pace. The 360-Degree Evaluations seem like a great idea to screen out toxic leadership. Gaining a more holistic picture with more metrics and inputs for leaders could only help the Marine Corps.

Career flexibility and “One-Time promotion Opt-Out” in allowing officers to stay at lower ranks for a longer period of time and can have the ability to still promote in the future will potentially retain individuals who don’t desire the “command track” as it’s currently written.  However, making the Opt-Out permanent will cause officers who specialize to hit a glass ceiling that doesn’t exist in the commercial or federal employment sectors. The “Opt Out” feature should also come with a method for that Marine to earn a higher pay band while retaining their technical role.

Not requiring PCS as a function of time, by policy (wasteful and inhibits cohesion)
Stabilizing personnel for longer to enhance cohesion
Latitude to exit service but potentially return as a lateral entry
Incorporating talent marketplace for assignments
One-time promotion opt-out
Unnecessary emphasis on command

The talent marketplace shows promise but like any system its’ value will be dependent on employment.  Concerns would be nepotism in desirable locations or units in that the commanders who have local officers will most likely choose known goods over unknown potential candidates.  This could cause a regional divide in more talented officers being centralized where more talented commanders and young officers stay while less desirable locations or units end up with the bottom of the talent spectrum across the entire officer corps.

Who determines/ what criteria determines highly qualified civilians to enter as mid-career officers? Allowing Marines that EAS’d to come back in at a higher rank after spending time out in the civilian sector. Who would determine the appropriate rank upon their return? 

A.I. programs to aid Monitors seems like it would be very helpful. In my mind, I still envision Monitors having a name on a board and having to hot fill certain billets, which leaves out many factors from the PCSing Marine’s prospective in regards to their desires and career goals

